GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE JUNE 5TH MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT OUR CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
COUNTERMELODIES HERE.
CONSIDER HARRISON YOUR THOUGHTS
ON YOUR HEALTH FOR WATSON HERE
ELSEWHERE DENHA HERE COMES
MARKAZI EVERYONE HERE MAYOR
TAYLOR HERE ELSEWHERE I'M HERE
ELSEWHERE HERE ELSEWHERE BREAKS
HERE ELSEWHERE FOR NOW HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM NOW THE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNSEL FOR DENHA
SECOND BY COUNCILMAN BECAUSE HE
HAD ONE DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED ITS
APPROACH.
DO YOU HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR MOMIR?
WELL THEN WE HAVE ONE OR TWO OR
THREE INTRODUCTIONS TO MAKE.
FIRST UP, MR. ROBERT WHITE, OUR
COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
PLEASE GIVE ME THE PODIUM
.
>> THANK YOU ALL.
SO WE ARE WE OF COURSE ARE
GATHERED HERE TODAY FOR A CITY
COUNCIL MEETING BUT THESE
CHAMBERS ARE USED FOR FOR SO
MANY DIFFERENT BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS, NUMEROUS BOARDS
OF COMMISSIONS THAT ARE ARE
CRUCIAL TO THE OPERATION
OF CITY GOVERNMENT.
THEY'RE CRUCIAL TO THE
OPERATION OF OUR LOCAL
DEMOCRACY.
WE REQUIRE COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO
COME FORWARD AND SERVE AND ARE
SO GRATEFUL FOR FOR THEIR JOINT
AND SEVERAL COLLECTIVE WORK
ADVICE AND WISDOM IN TERMS
OF WORK AND WORK AND ADVICE AND
WISDOM.
I THINK THERE ARE VERY FEW TO
COMPARE TO.
MR. WHITE, MR. WHITE HERE HAS
SERVED AT THE FOR THE CITY FOR
FOUR DECADES NOW THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION FOR 18
YEARS AND THE ENTIRE BORDER
REVIEW FOR 30 YEARS AND I AM
READING THAT CORRECTLY IN ANY
EVENT IT IS DUE TO PEOPLE LIKE
MR. RIGHT THAT WE ARE ABLE
COMMISSIONER RIGHT.
THAT WE ARE ABLE TO TO DO THE
WORK OF GOVERNMENT AND SO IT IS
MY GREAT PLEASURE TO HAVE THIS
PROCLAMATION IN HIS HONOR.
WHEREAS MR. ROBERT WHITE HAS
SERVED THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT
PART OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FOR 18 YEARS SINCE
SEPTEMBER TWO THOUSAND FIVE AND
HE HAD OUR REPORT WITH YOU FOR
THIRTY YEARS SINCE JANUARY 19.
NINETY THREE AND AS ROBERT
WHITE HAS SERVED UNDER SIX
ASSESSORS DURING HIS TENURE
FACILITATED THE PRESERVATION
OF FAIR AND EQUITABLE PROPERTY
VALUES BY RESOLVING REPEAL'S
AND CONCERNING REAL AND
PERSONAL PROPERTY ASSESSMENTS.
AND WE'RE ASKED ROBERT WHY IT
IS PUT TO GOOD USE HIS VAST
EXPERIENCE AS A COMMISSIONER IN
THE PURSUIT OF HISTORIC
PRESERVATION GOALS AND WHEREAS
ROBERT WHITE HAS SERVED AS
CHAIRPERSON OF THE NOMINATING
COMMITTEE FOR 17 YEARS ALSO ON
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES COMMITTEE AND THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR SOLAR
COMMITTEE AS WELL AS NUMEROUS
OTHER COMMITTEES THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION THAT ARE NO
DOUBT LOST TO TIME WHEREAS
ROBERT HAS SERVED AS CHAIR
OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW AND
SECRETARY AND VICE CHAIR AND
CHAIR OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION DURING HIS TENURE.
WHEREAS MR. ROBERT WHITE HAS
BEEN THE LONGEST SERVING
COMMISSIONER IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION IS 50 YEARS
OF EXISTENCE AND THE LONGEST
LONGEST SERVING MEMBER ON THE
BOARD REVIEW NOW THEREFORE I
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR, MAYOR
OF ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN DO
HEREBY RECOGNIZE AND THANK
ROBERT WHITE FOR HIS
CONTRIBUTIONS DEDICATED TO
SERVICE TO THE CITY OF BANABA
AND PROCLAIM JUNE FIVE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE AS A DAY TO HONOR
HIM AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE
SERVICE TO THE CITY BANABA I
SHOULD ADD AT LEAST IN THESE
CAPACITIES.
AND SO MR. RIGHT, THANK YOU
VERY THANK YOU
.
WE'D LIKE TO THANK ALL THE
MAYORS THAT APPOINTED ME AND
THE CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS THAT
APPOINTED ME AND ESPECIALLY
MAYOR TAYLOR WHO DID HIS
PROCLAMATION FOR ME AND I WANT
TO THANK MY WIFE SANDY WHITE
AND CATHY WHI, MY DAUGHTER
WHO ALLOWED ME TO PARTICIPATE
IN THESE PROGRAMS.
SO THANK YOU VERY, VERY MUCH.
WELL, THANK YOU.
YOU ARE NOW I HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF OUR SECOND PROCLAMATION WITH
RESPECT TO JUNE 23 AS LGBTQ
PRIDE MONTH.
COME ON OF ALL ALL WHO KNOW
YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO BE HERE.
WELCOME HERE.
THANK YOU.
IT IS OF COURSE A GREAT
PLEASURE TO TO CELEBRATE AND
PROCLAIM PRIDE MONTH IN ANN
ARBOR JUNE TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
IT IS AN OCCASION WHERE WE
WHERE WE CELEBRATE AND AFFIRM
THE TREMENDOUS CHANGES THAT
HAVE OCCURRED IN OUR LIFETIMES,
THE TREMENDOUS ADVANCEMENTS
THAT HAVE OCCURRED AND WE
CELEBRATE THEM.
IT IS ALSO OUR OPPORTUNITY TO
TAKE TO OBSERVE THAT THE WELL
THE RIGHT WING HATE MACHINE IS
NOT VANQUISHED AND THAT THE
DECLARATION OF PRIDE MONTH IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO TO
RECOGNIZE THAT AND TO REAFFIRM
OUR COMMUNITIES, OUR
INDIVIDUAL, OUR COLLECTIVE
FIGHT AGAINST AGAINST HATRED
AND OUR AFFIRMATION OF OUR
LGBTQ COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
AND FINALLY, THE DECLARATION
OF PRIDE MONTH HERE IN ANN
ARBOR IS A DELIGHTFUL
OPPORTUNITY TO CELEBRATE THE
INDIVIDUALS IN OUR COMMUNITY IN
ANN ARBOR WHO COMPRISE THE
LGBTQ COMMUNITY WITHOUT WITHOUT
THEM.
ANN ARBOR SIMPLY WOULD NOT BE
ANN ARBOR.
THEY ARE INTEGRAL TO WHO WE
ARE.
THEY ARE INDEED WHO WE ARE AND
IT IS THEREFORE MY GREAT AND
TRUE PLEASURE TO EFFECT THIS
PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS EACH JUNE LGBTQ PEOPLE
AND THEIR FRIENDS AND FAMILY
RECOGNIZE THE JOURNEY TOWARDS
LIBERATION AND THOSE WHO FOUGHT
FOR EQUALITY INCLUDING THE AND
TRANSGENDER PEOPLE OF COLOR WHO
TOOK TO THE STREETS IN NEW YORK
CITY AT THE STONEWALL INN AND
IN CITIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY
AND WHEREAS THE CITY THAT NO
HOLDS AN HISTORIC PLACE IN THE
HISTORY, THE LGBTQ MOVEMENT FOR
EQUALITY AND ARBER WAS AMONG
THE FIRST CITIES OF THE NATION
TO PASS AN ORDINANCE TO PROTECT
RESIDENTS FROM DISCRIMINATION
BASED ON SEXUAL ORIENTATION
LATER ADDING GENDER IDENTITY
PROTECTIONS AND TO HAVE OPENLY
GAY OR LESBIAN ELECTED
OFFICIALS AND WHEREAS THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR CONTINUES TO LEAD
WITHIN THE CITY OF MICHIGAN,
PART OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
IN WORKING TO ADVANCE EQUALITY
AND SAFETY FOR LGBT PEOPLES
INCLUDING THROUGH ROBUST
NONDISCRIMINATION PROTECTIONS
AND A BAN TO THE DISCREDITED
PRACTICE OF CONVERSION THERAPY
AND WHEREAS THIS YEAR AROUND
THE COUNTRY STATE LEGISLATURES
HAVE INTRODUCED AND PASSED A
RECORD NUMBER OF BILLS
ATTACKING LGBTQ PEOPLE,
ESPECIALLY TRANSGENDER YOUTH
AND THEIR FAMILIES AND THEIR
ABILITY TO ACCESS THE MOST
BASIC NEEDS OF HEALTH CARE.
AND WHEREAS WE RECOGNIZE THE
DIVERSITY AND MANY
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR LGBTQ PLUS
RESIDENTS AND THEIR FAMILIES TO
THE VIBRANCY, INCLUSIVE AND
VITALITY OF THE CITY THAT
HARBOR NOW THEREFORE I
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR, MAYOR
OF ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN DO
HEREBY PROCLAIM JUNE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE AS PRIDE MONTH AND
AFFIRM OUR COMMUNITIES
COMMITMENT TO WORKING AGAINST
DISCRIMINATION VIOLENCE AGAINST
LGBTQ PLUS PEOPLES AND ENSURING
THAT ALL LGBT LGBT PERSONS IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR HAVE
EQUAL DIGNITY, EQUITY AND
JUSTICE THAT
I WANT TO THANK
YOU GUYS SO MUCH ESPECIALLY
BEING A DRAG QUEEN IN THE
UNITED STATES.
AS YOU KNOW IT'S BEEN HARD
ESPECIALLY AS A PUBLIC SCHOOL
TEACHER AND LINCOLN
CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL OF MYSELF
AND PAST ELEMENTARY TEACHER AND
WYKES.
I WANT TO THANK YOU GUYS SO
MUCH, ESPECIALLY THE UNIVERSITY
POLICE FOR MAKING SURE I WAS
SAFE AT HAMMERFEST LAST YEAR
WHENEVER I WAS WHENEVER I WAS
BROUGHT WITH VERY BAD RHETORIC
AND A SITUATION WHICH INVOLVED
EVEN THEIR CHILDREN WHICH I
TESTIFIED IN THE CASE LAST
HONORING THEIR MOTHER THAT WAS
SEPARATED FROM THEIR HUSBAND
AND THEIR MOTHER WAS GIVEN FULL
CUSTODY OF WHERE HER KIDS WERE
ABLE TO GO.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR ALL
THE WORK YOU GUYS DO
.
I WOULD JUST SAY THANK YOU ON
BEHALF OF MYSELF AND ALL OF THE
OTHER CITY EMPLOYEES WHO ARE
MEMBERS OF THE LGBTQ COMMUNITY
,WE REALLY APPRECIATE THE
PROCLAMATION.
SO THANK YOU
ON BEHALF OF THE
JIM TOYE COMMUNITY CENTER AND
OUR PRIDE, I WANT TO THANK YOU
ALL FOR YOUR CONTINUED SUPPORT
.
AS DAVID MENTIONED AND MAY OR
MENTIONED, IT'S NOT A TIME TO
SLOW DOWN AT ALL WHEN IT COMES
TO OUR COMMUNITY AND VISIBILITY
MATTERS ACROSS ALL COLORS
OF OUR RAINBOW.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.
BECAUSE I'M A LIAISON TO THE
MAYOR'S OFFICE FOR THE LGBTQ
COMMUNITY AND I JUST WANT TO
SAY THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THIS.
AND AS WAS MENTIONED THIS YEAR
HAS BEEN HISTORIC AND NOT IN
GOOD WAYS FOR LGBTQ PEOPLE.
IT'S THE BULLS THAT HAVE BEEN
INTRODUCED AND PASSED NINETEEN
ALONE THAT TARGET TRANS YOUTH
AND THEIR HEALTH CARE, WHETHER
IT'S PRIDE DISPLAYS TARGET OR,
YOU KNOW, DRAG QUEENS
REPRESENTING OUR COMMUNITY.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HOW
MUCH THIS MEANS TO US OUR
BUBBLE THAT WE LIVE IN IN ANN
ARBOR WHERE WE FEEL SO ACCEPTED
AND WELCOMED AND THIS COUNCIL
REMAINS A HISTORIC PLACE WITH
OUR CURRENT AND PAST LGBT Q
MEMBERS.
WE ALSO ARE THANKFUL TO HAVE A
COUNTY COMMISSIONER AND
REPRESENTATIVES AT THE STATE
CAPITOL WHO ARE FROM OUR
COMMUNITY.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE
PROCLAMATION AND HAPPY PRIDE
JERKWATER.
>> WE KNOW ABOUT OUR WORKS IN
THE CHAIR INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION
CHAIR CARTER.
THANK YOU MR. GOOD EVENING.
THE OAK PARK SUBCOMMITTEES
CONTINUE TO WORK.
WE HAVE DECIDED TO FORGO OUR
JULY AND AUGUST MEETINGS SO WE
CAN ENJOY SOME VACATION TIME
WITH THE SUBCOMMITTEE.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO WORK.
WE HAVE SUBCOMMITTEES LOOKING
AT THE POLICY AND PROCEDURES
OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT TO SEE
IF WE NEED TO TWEAK ANY
OF THOSE AS WELL AS GETTING OUR
OWN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES IN
ORDER.
WE ARE SPECIFICALLY WORKING TO
STREAMLINE THE PROCESS
OF REVIEWING COMPLAINTS AND WE
DO PLAN TO HAVE OUR YEAR END
REPORT IN BY THE END OF TWENTY
TWENTY THREE.
NOW AS YOU PART OF OUR MISSION
IS TO INCREASE TRANSPARENCY AND
ACCOUNTABILITY IN ORDER TO
BRING ABOUT BETTER
RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT AND THE ANN
ARBOR COMMUNITY.
AND I'M SURE YOU ALSO KNOW THAT
THE SOUTHEAST WANT TO MAKE SURE
I GET ALL THE NAMES RIGHT.
THE SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN CRIMINAL
JUSTICE POLICY RESEARCH PROJECT
LANDSMARK SMART THERE WAS THE
ACRONYM FOR SMART HAS BEEN
UNDERWAY.
THE RESEARCH HAS BEEN GOING ON
FOR A LITTLE MORE THAN A YEAR
AND THAT'S BEEN DONE AT EASTERN
MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY.
THEY HAVE BEEN CONDUCTING AN
ANALYSIS OF TRAFFIC STATS
COLLECTED BY THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT FOR THE PERIOD
OF TIME FROM JANUARY TWENTY
SEVENTEEN THROUGH DECEMBER
THIRTY FIRST TWENTY NINETEEN.
THE STUDY WAS FUNDED IN LARGE
PART THROUGH THE COMMUNITY
POLICING INNOVATIONS
INITIATIVE, A PROGRAM OF THE
COMMUNITY FOUNDATION
OF SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN.
THE GOAL OF THE ANALYSIS WAS TO
IDENTIFY ANY POTENTIAL EVIDENCE
OF RACIAL DISPARITIES THAT MAY
BE PRESENT WITH REGARD TO
POLICE TRAFFIC STOPS.
AND I AM REPORTING TODAY THAT
THAT DRAFT I THINK I MENTIONED
IT A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO AND
WE EXPECTED IT TO BE OUT.
THE DRAFT REPORT IS OUT.
WE HAVE OUR COPY.
I THINK SOME OF YOU MEMBERS
OF COUNCIL HAVE RECEIVED A COPY
OF THAT REPORT.
IF NOT, I SPOKE WITH DR.
KARPIAK WHO IS IN CHARGE
OF THAT STUDY AND IT IS
FORTHCOMING.
BUT WHAT I'D LIKE TO LET YOU
KNOW IS THAT THE ANALYSIS
IDENTIFIED SIGNIFICANT
DISPARITIES ACROSS EVERY
DIMENSION THAT THEY EXAMINED
WITH NONWHITE MOTORISTS BEING
STOPPED AND SEARCHED MORE
FREQUENTLY ACROSS EVERY
DIMENSION EXAMINED AND
MOTORISTS BEING STOPPED AND
SEARCHED LESS FREQUENTLY THAN
WOULD BE EXPECTED IN EVERY
INSTANCE THE LARGEST DISPARITY
IDENTIFIED IN THE ANALYSIS
INVOLVES AFRICAN-AMERICAN MALE
DRIVERS FOR STOPS INITIATED FOR
EQUIPMENT VIOLATIONS WHICH
OCCURRED TWO POINT FOUR TIMES
MORE LIKELY THAN WOULD HAVE
BEEN EXPECTED.
IN ADDITION TO THE STATS
SEARCHES AFTER THE INITIAL STOP
OCCURRED BETWEEN FOUR POINT I'M
SORRY FIVE POINT FOUR AND THREE
POINT SIX TIMES MORE OFTEN WITH
AFRICAN AMERICAN MALES.
I THINK THIS IS IMPORTANT.
I KNOW WE HAVE SEEN WHAT
NEGATIVE INOMAX CAN OCCUR AS A
RESULT OF A TRAFFIC STOP AND I
KNOW THAT THIS IS IMPORTANT
INFORMATION I'M AWARE
OF CERTAIN CERTAIN THINGS THAT
WILL BE COMING BEFORE THIS
COUNCIL AND I HOPE THAT YOU
WILL CONSIDER THIS REPORT WHEN
YOU LOOK AT THINGS THAT I
UPCOMING WE WILL BE MEETING IT
IS GOING TO BE MEETING WITH DR.
KARPIAK AND WE'RE GOING TO TALK
TO THEM ABOUT WHAT THEY DID,
WHAT THEY LOOKED AT, HOW THEY
HOW THEY DID THE STUDY IN THE
NEXT
TWO OR THREE WEEKS WE
EXPECT THAT THE COMMISSIONERS
WILL HAVE MET WITH DR. KARPIAK
AND WE ARE PLANNING A FORUM AT
OUR SEPTEMBER MEETING WHICH
WILL BE THE FOURTH TUESDAY
FOURTH TUESDAY IN SEPTEMBER.
I THINK TODAY'S THE TWENTY
FOURTH WE WILL BE INVITING THE
PUBLIC.
WE CERTAINLY ARE INVITING ANY
COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO WISH TO
ATTEND AND WE'RE GOING TO BE
DISCUSSING THE REPORT WHICH
WILL BE OUT IN THE PUBLIC BY
THAT TIME.
SO THAT THAT IS THAT WHAT'S NEW
WITH US?
IF THERE ARE ANY QUESTIONS I'M
HAPPY TO ADDRESS.
IF NOT, THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND
GOOD EVENING
.
WE NOW THANK YOU.
WE NOW CAN DO PUBLIC COMMENT,
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK IN
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU WHEN THIRTY SECONDS
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED.
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
WENDY SHERMAN WENDY SHERMAN
PHONE NUMBER AND SIX NINE THREE
STAR SIX ON YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS WENDY
KAUFMAN.
I LIVE AT TWENTY THREE 40
GEORGETOWN AND I AM THE CURRENT
PRESIDENT OF THE ORCHARD HILL
THE MAPLEWOOD HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION, A NEIGHBORHOOD
BORDERING THE PLYMOUTH ROAD
CORRIDOR.
I AGREE THERE IS VALUE IN
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ALONG
WITH YOUR COMMANDERS.
I UNDERSTAND THAT PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION MUST BE
SOMETHING I WOULD SUPPORT
TRANSPORTATION NODES WITH MIXED
USE IF PAIRED WITH A BETTER
TRANSIT SYSTEM I MIGHT SUPPORT
INCREASING DENSITY ALONG
CORRIDORS WITH EXISTING
TRANSPORTATION IF THE
REGULATIONS WERE WRITTEN TO
RESPECT CERTAIN CHARACTERISTICS
OF THOSE COMMANDERS WHICH ATC
DOES NOT DO, I DON'T THINK ONE
SIZE FITS PLYMOUTH ROAD IS NOT
AT ALL LIKE ST. AND EISENHOWER
WHICH HAD NO NATURAL FEATURES
AND NO RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORS.
>> PLYMOUTH CORRIDOR RESIDENTS
ALREADY LIVE IN A FIFTEEN TO
TWENTY MINUTE WALK NEIGHBORHOOD
.
>> I THINK SIGNIFICANT NATURAL
FEATURES TREES WETLANDS CREEK
SHEDS LIKE THE MILLER CREEK ARE
TOO VALUABLE TO OUR HEALTH AND
WELL-BEING TO BE REPLACED.
>> TRAFFIC AND PEDESTRIAN
SAFETY IS VITALLY IMPORTANT YET
THERE'S NO PLAN TO ADDRESS THIS
YET HIGH SIXTY ONE BUILDINGS
SHOULD NOT SHAPE THE BACKYARDS
OF ADJACENT RESIDENTIAL LOFTS.
I COUNCIL HAS A VISION FOR THE
FUTURE MORE THAN EVER.
I DON'T KNOW THAT YET.
I EXPECT THAT COULD CHANGE
DURING THE PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
PORTION OF THE REWRITE OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
WHAT I DON'T UNDERSTAND JUST
WHAT MADE THIS RESOLUTION
NECESSARY.
WHAT IS THE URGENCY OF WHAT
STEPS ARE CONSIDERED EXTRANEOUS
?
DOES THIS MEAN YOU WANT TO
RESOLVE THESE TWO CORRIDORS
WITHOUT ANY FURTHER PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT?
WHAT IS THE REASON FOR
OUTLAWING ANY IMPROVEMENTS IN
THE ORDINANCE BEFORE PASSING
MORE MASS WITH WHAT WE KNOW IS
A FLAWED ORDINANCE?
THIS RESOLUTION SEEMS URGENT,
VAGUE AND PERHAPS MISLEADING.
IT SENDS A MESSAGE THAT SEEMS
TO SAY WE NEED TO PASS THIS
BEFORE THE CONFERENCE THE PLAN
GETS GOING IN THE PUBLIC.
I HAVE A CHANCE TO ALTER
SOMETHING IS WRONG HERE.
>> I DON'T EXPECT COUNCIL TO
ALWAYS AGREE WITH ME OR ANY
OTHER RESIDENT HOWEVER I
RESPECT I EXPECT RESPECT AND
OPPORTUNITY FOR DIALOG AND AN
EFFECTIVE EFFORT FOR ADDRESSING
RESIDENTS CONCERNS.
>> THIS RESOLUTION SIGNALS NOT
CARING TO KNOW WHAT THE PUBLIC
THINKS BECAUSE YOU HAVE A
VISION AND YOU FEAR IT MIGHT
FAIL IF YOU INFORM THE PUBLIC
IF THE VISION IS RIGHT.
LET'S WAIT 30 SECONDS,
INCORPORATE THEIR IDEAS.
>> YOU WILL CONVINCE THEM AFTER
ALL, WE THE PUBLIC ARE THE
STAKEHOLDERS HERE.
>> I THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DENHA
THOMPSON
.
MY NAME IS DENHA THOMPSON AND I
AM THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE
ANN ARBOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
I'M SPEAKING IN SUPPORT OF THE
PROPOSED MEMORANDUM
OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
YOU WILL NEXT HEAR FROM PETE
WONG.
HE IS THE COUNSEL FOR THE EDC
AND HE'S GOING TO TALK ABOUT
THE ORIGINS AND PURPOSES OF THE
EDC.
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AS A
MEMBER OF THE BOARD ABOUT THE
EXCITING POSSIBILITIES
OF DIFFERENT ACTIVITIES OF THE
EDC TO SUPPORT THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR, THE ITCS PRIMARY ROLE TO
DATE HAS BEEN TO ISSUE TAX
EXEMPT PRIVATE ACTIVITY REVENUE
BONDS FOR VARIOUS PURPOSES FOR
VARIOUS PROJECTS IN THE CITY.
THE EDC HAS NOT ISSUED ANY
OF THESE BONDS IN A NUMBER
OF YEARS DUE TO LOW INTEREST
RATES.
THIS M0 YOU WILL ALLOW FOR THE
EDC TO WORK CLOSELY WITH THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO DETERMINE
OTHER ACTIVITIES AND SERVICES
THAT THE EDC WILL PROVIDE.
THE EDC IS ALSO AWARE OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT SERVICES PROVIDED
BY IN OUR HERSBACH TO THE CITY
AND THE MORE YOU PROVIDES THAT
THE ACTIVITIES AND SERVICES IS
TO BE DEVELOPED BY THE EDC WITH
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR WILL BE
OUTSIDE OF THE SCOPE OF THE
AGREEMENTS BETWEEN ANN ARBOR
SPARKE AND THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AND WILL NOT INTERFERE
WITH THE ENTIRE PARK SERVICES
AND SOME I HOPE THE CITY
COUNCIL APPROVES THIS AND WILL
YOU TO ALLOW THE EDC AND THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO BEGIN TO
DETERMINE THE ADDITIONAL
SERVICES AND ACTIVITIES THE EDC
WILL PROVIDE WHICH WILL ENHANCE
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND IMPROVE
THE LIVES OF ITS CITIZENS?
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETER LONG
.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M PETE VAUGHN.
I'M AN ATTORNEY OF COUNSEL WITH
THE NATURAL LAW GROUP AND A
LONG TIME LONG TERM CLIENT.
I'D JUST LIKE TO TOUCH ON A
TECHNICAL PART YOU'RE BACKING
UP PROFESSOR THOMPSON'S
COMMENTS.
THE ADC IS A SEPARATE ENTITY
FROM THE FROM THE CITY OF BOND
ISSUED BY THE ADC NOT SHOULD
KNOW BY THE CITY AND VICE VERSA
.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO KEEP THAT
DISTINCTION IN MIND.
THE ADC IS IS A WAY FOR
ELIGIBLE APPLICANT FOR
INELIGIBLE PROJECT DUE TO SAVE
SUBSTANTIAL SUMS ON THE
FINANCING COSTS.
IT'S BEEN IT'S BENEFIT MANY
PROJECTS AND CITY OVER THE
YEARS.
BUT AS AS A BOND SHARING ENTITY
IT'S REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH
THE REQUIREMENTS OF BOTH STATE
AND FEDERAL LAW, FEDERAL LAW,
ITS GOVERNING TAXES AND
OBLIGATIONS LIKE ADC BONDS IS
PROBABLY ONE OF THE IF NOT THE
ONE OF THE MOST COMPLEX IN THE
IN THE IN THE TAX
CODE ARBITRAGE GUESS AND SO
FORTH SO THAT IT'S IMPORTANT
THAT AS A PROJECT GOES FORWARD
THAT EVERYTHING THAT CAN BE
DONE IS BEING DONE TO
FACILITATE THAT PROCESS.
ONE OF THE REASONS ONE OF THE
REASONS UNDERLYING THE M OR YOU
BESIDES THE ONES THAT PROFESSOR
THOMPSON MENTIONED WAS TO MAKE
VERY CLEAR THAT PARAMOUNT
NECESSITY THAT THAT THESE BONDS
RECOGNIZED THAT NO MATTER WHAT
THESE NEW ENTERPRISES ARE GOING
TO BE THE NEW SERVICES AND
ROLES THAT THE ADC MAY PLAY FOR
THE CITY THAT UNDERLYING ALL
OF THAT THERE HAS TO BE
COMPLIANCE WITH THESE LAWS.
SO FOR THAT TECHNICAL REASON
AGAIN THEY ARE THE REASON THE
OTHER ACTUALLY POINTED OUT WAS
THE TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNITIES
FOR THE CITY AND THE STAFF AND
THE BOARD OF ADC TO EXPLORE
WHAT THESE NEW ROLES AND
SERVICES MAY BE LITERALLY
UNLIMITED.
SO IT SHOULD BE EXCITING TO SEE
.
SO BY ALL MEANS PLEASE REGARD
THE ADC AS A PARTNER AND AN
ENTITY LOOKING VERY MUCH
FORWARD TO WORKING WITH COUNCIL
AND STAFF.
I'LL BE HERE SO IF ANYONE HAS
ANY QUESTIONS EITHER TONIGHT OR
AT ANY TIME FEEL FREE TO GIVE
ME A BUZZ.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS EMILY
SQUIGGY
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS EMILY SCRUBY AND I'M
AN ANN ARBOR RESIDENT.
I'M HERE TODAY TO EXPRESS
SUPPORT FOR THE PROPOSED
HUMAINE PADSTOW ORDINANCE
ESPECIALLY PROHIBITING THE
POTENTIAL FUTURE SALE OF DOGS
IN PET STORES, PUPPY SELLING
PET STORES ARE PART OF A
GREATER PIPELINE WHICH FUNNELS
SICK AND INHUMANELY BRED
PUPPIES INTO THE HANDS
OF CONSUMERS.
THE SYSTEM COMPLETELY LACKS
TRANSPARENCY AND PUPPY
PURCHASERS DON'T KNOW WHAT
CRUELTY THEY ARE SUPPORTING,
WHICH IS PUPPY MILLS OR
COMMERCIAL BREEDING FACILITIES
WITH RECORDED ANIMAL WELFARE
VIOLATIONS AND HUNDREDS OF DOGS
CONFINED TO SMALL CAGES FOR THE
ENTIRETY OF THEIR LIVES.
PET STORES OFTEN SELL THEIR
PUPPIES FOR THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS
WITH FALSE PROMISES
OF HUMANE REGULATED SOURCING
AND HEALTHY SOCIALIZED PUPPIES
WHEN THIS IS VERY RARELY TRUE,
THIS ORDINANCE WOULD PROTECT
OUR COMMUNITY MEMBERS FROM
MISLEADING SALES TACTICS SICK
PUPPY SALES, HIGH VETERINARY
BILLS AND PREDATORY LENDING
THAT SO OFTEN OCCURS WHEN
CUSTOMERS CAN'T OUTRIGHT AFFORD
A PUPPY.
THE REALITY IS NO PET STORE
NEEDS TO SELL ANIMALS IN ORDER
TO BE SUCCESSFUL.
ACCORDING TO BUSINESS MAGAZINE
OF THE TOP TWENTY FIVE PET
RETAILERS IN NORTH AMERICA ONLY
ONE WHO SELLS PUPPIES AND IN
TWENTY TWENTY TWO CHAIN SHRUNK
COMPETITORS THAT DIDN'T SELL
DOGS GREW.
THIS IS EVIDENCE THAT NO PET
STORE NEEDS TO SELL DOGS TO BE
PROFITABLE.
PET STORES CAN THRIVE BY
PROVIDING PET OWNERS WITH
EVERYTHING THEY NEED TO CARE
FOR THEIR PETS RATHER THAN
SELLING THE PETS THEMSELVES.
AND THIS MODEL IS ALREADY
FOLLOWED BY THE VAST MAJORITY
OF PET STORES HERE IN MICHIGAN
SIX STATES AND OVER FOUR
HUNDRED AND SIXTY LOCALITIES
HAVE PROHIBITED THE SALE
OF DOGS AND CATS IN PET STORES
INCLUDING EASTPOINTE FRAIZER,
NEW BALTIMORE ROYAL OAK HARBOR
SPRINGS, ST. CLAIR SHORES AND
NEWLY WOODHAVEN HERE IN
MICHIGAN THESE LOTS HAVE SHRUNK
DEMAND FOR PUPPIES BRED IN
CRUEL CONDITIONS WITH PUBLIC
RECORDS SHOWING THIRTY TWO
THOUSAND FEWER BREEDING DOGS IN
USDA LICENSED PUPPY MILLS THAN
TEN YEARS AGO.
I HOPE ANN ARBOR WILL JOIN IN
THIS EFFORT BY PASSING THIS
ORDINANCE AND KEEPING OUR
COMMUNITY HUMANE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STUHLBARG
.
TOM STOVER, PHONE NUMBER FIVE
THREE FOUR RUSKA SIX ON MUTE
YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD
AND
INTERESTEDLY SIX YEAR COMMUNITY
ESPECIALLY THE PARTICIPATED IN
MORE INNOVATION FOR THIS AND
MUCH, MUCH SLOUGH OFF OF THIS
LITERALLY WITH THE PUBLICATION
OF ENSHRINED ENFORCEABLE LEGAL
THAT IS A CHANGE LITERALLY THE
COMMISSION TO RECOMMEND TO
CHANGE THE LAW FOR THE FIRST.
SO WE'LL SEE WHAT WILL HAPPEN
BE ABLE TO RECOMMEND TO MAKE A
UPC TO A DIFFERENT SET OF ALL
THE TWENTY ONE IF WOULD BE
BECAUSE EACH WITH DIFFERENT
CHARACTERISTICS I DON'T BE
ALLOWED TO WRITE YOU IN THE
MACHINE AT THE LEVEL
NEWS TITLE.
YES A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
THE PLANNING COMES FIRST YOU
MAKE THE PLAN THE OFFICIAL
LANGUAGE FOR THE PLAN THE
EXECUTE.
>> YES OUR PLAN IS TO BROADCAST
A TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT
PLAN BUT THE PLAN TO DICTATED
INTO ENCODING.
>> BUT THAT'S WHAT WE'RE YOU
ANALOGY WITH THE SOFTWARE
DEVELOPMENT.
WHAT IS THE ONE GO STRAIGHT
INTO CODING IT MUST HAVE TO BE
WANT BY ALGORITHM AND ACCORDING
TO THIS PROPOSAL THE ISSUE
PRESUPPOSES THAT MAY NOT
DETERMINE THE IN CATEGORY 62
BECAUSE IT WILL BENEFIT FOR
MCWHORTER'S UNIQUE
CHARACTERISTICS THAT MUST BE
APPLIED BECAUSE IT'S SUCH A
WELL AS OPPOSED PRIOR TO MAKING
ANY MODIFICATIONS.
>> YOU SEE WHAT IF ONE DOESN'T
FIT THE NEW CAR AS WELL OR
OTHER AS IF YOU WANT TO LEARN
MORE APPLICANTS WITH PROPERTY
IN THE FIRST ITERATION
ITERATIONS THEY'RE DOING THIRTY
TO FORTY ONE SOFTBALL'S
SHAHRIARI TO MAKE A MESS JUST
PRIOR TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
VISION STARTING WITH A MORE
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT AND MORE
ROBUST PLANNING PROCESS.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BAILLY
HODGERS
BAILEY ROGER PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE THREE
EIGHT FOUR STAR SIX ON MUTE
YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD.
>> OH MY NAME IS BAILEY I'M A
RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR.
I HAVE STUDIED PUBLIC HEALTH
AND WORK IN PUBLIC HEALTH
UNIVERSITY AND I READ IN ANN
HARBOR AND I'M CALLING IN
SUPPORT OF THE COALITION FOR
REINVIGORATING OUR CITY YOUR
CLOTHES AND I DO WANT TO
EXPRESS MY GRATITUDE FOR THE
RECENTLY RELEASED COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT REPORT THAT WAS
PROVIDED BY PUBLIC SECTOR
CONSULTANT CSC.
I PARTICULARLY PLEASED TO SEE
THAT THREE KEY FINDINGS IN THE
REPORT ALIGN WITH THOSE VALUES
AND I URGE THE CITY COUNCIL TO
PRIORITIZE THE FOLLOWING FIRST
FUNDING UNARM PUBLIC SAFETY
RESPONSE FROM EXISTING BUDGET
RESOURCES AND THIS APPROACH
REALLY ENSURES THAT FISCAL
RESPONSIBILITY AND DEMONSTRATES
THE CITY'S COMMITMENT TO
ADDRESSING THE ROOT CAUSES
OF CONFLICT AND CRISIS WITHOUT
INCREASING THE TAX BURDEN ON
RESIDENTS AND REDIRECTING FUNDS
FROM TRADITIONAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT TO UNARMED PUBLIC
SAFETY REFORMS AND REDIRECTING
RESOURCES TO SUPPORTIVE SOCIAL
SERVICES INSTEAD OF PUNITIVE
AND HARMFUL LAW ENFORCEMENT.
THE PREVENTION RATHER THAN
PUNISHMENT APPROACH TO PUBLIC
SAFETY CAN REDUCE THE NEED FOR
MORE COSTLY INTERVENTION LATER
ON.
THE SECOND ASPECT IS PUBLISHING
A SEPARATE ESTABLISHING A
SEPARATE NUMBER FOR RESPONSE
AND HAVING A DEDICATED NUMBER
FOR ANONYMOUS GRANTS CAN HELP
STREAMLINE SERVICES ENSURE
APPROPRIATE RESPONSE TO NON
EMERGENCY SITUATIONS AND
ALLEVIATE THE BURDEN ON THE
ONLINE SYSTEM BY ESTABLISHING A
SEPARATE NUMBER FOR AN ARMED
RESPONSE, COMMUNITIES CAN
ENSURE THAT MENTAL HEALTH
CRISES, SUBSTANCE ABUSE ISSUES
AND OTHER NONVIOLENT SITUATIONS
ARE ADDRESSED WITH THE
APPROPRIATE LEVEL OF CARE AND
EXPERTIZE THE LAST COMPONENT IS
EXCLUDING POLICE FROM THE
RESPONSE AND BY FOCUSING ON
UNARMED RESPONSE PROFESSIONALS
FOR NONVIOLENT SITUATIONS WE
CAN REDUCE THE RISK
OF UNNECESSARY SUPPORT.
WE CAN ENHANCE COMMUNITY TRUST
AND ENCOURAGE MORE EFFECTIVE
COMMUNITY BASED SOLUTIONS AND
EXCLUDING POLICE FROM UNARMED
RESPONSES CAN HELP MINIMIZE THE
POTENTIAL FOR VIOLENCE OR TO
FORCE UNARMED CRISIS RESPONSE
TEAMS COMPRISED OF MENTAL
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS, SOCIAL
WORKERS OR COMMUNITY MEDIATORS
.
THEY CANNOT HAVE HANDLED
SITUATIONS WITHOUT RESORTING TO
FORCEFUL TACTICS.
>> SO I SEE REQUESTS THAT THE
CITY COUNCIL TAKE THESE
FINDINGS INTO CONSIDERATION AND
MOVE FORWARD WITH RELEASING THE
RC OR UNARMED RESPONSE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME
AND DEDICATION TO IMPROVING
PUBLIC SAFETY IN ANAPRA.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS AMBLER
MYERS
CHANDLER AYERS.
HELLO.
>> GO AHEAD.
HELLO MY NAME IS TAMMY MEYERS
AND I HAVE STUDIED LIVED AND
WORKED IN ANN ARBOR SINCE TWO
THOUSAND SIXTEEN.
>> I'M CALLING IN SUPPORT
OF THE COALITION FOR
REINVIGORATING OUR SAFETY ALSO
KNOWN AS KROST.
>> I HAVE READ THE COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT REPORT BY PUBLIC
SECTOR CONSULTANTS AND I'M HERE
TO URGE THE CITY COUNCIL TO
PRIORITIZE THE FOLLOWING THREE
KEY FINDINGS IN THAT REPORT.
FIRSTLY TO FAMILY AND OUR
PUBLIC SAFETY RESPONSE FROM
EXISTING BUDGET RESOURCES.
PERSONALLY I BELIEVE THAT
SUMMER ALL OF THIS FUNDING
SHOULD BE TAKEN OUT OF THE
EXISTING POLICING BUDGET THE
CITY'S COMMITMENT OF OUR FUNDS
TO OUR RESPONSE PROGRAM IS A
GREAT START AND ONGOING
SUSTAINED FUNDING FROM THE
EXISTING POLICE BUDGET WOULD BE
A GREAT WAY TO ENSURE THIS
PROGRAM REMAINS ROBUST CARE
BASED AND ACCESSIBLE TO ALL ANN
ARBOR RESIDENTS TO BE THERE TO
DEMONSTRATE THE CITY'S
COMMITMENT TO ADDRESSING THE
ROOT CAUSES OF CONFLICT AND
CRISIS.
>> SECONDLY, THE RFP SHOULD
REQUIRE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
SEPARATE NUMBER FOUR ON OUR
RESPONSE.
A DEDICATED NUMBER FOUR ON OUR
RESPONSE CAN HELP STREAMLINE
SERVICES, ENSURE APPROPRIATE
RESPONSE TO NON-EMERGENCY
SITUATIONS AND ALLEVIATE THE
BURDEN ON THE 911 SYSTEM.
>> THIRD AND FINALLY THE RFP
SHOULD INSIST ON THE EXCLUSION
OF POLICE FROM THE ARMED
RESPONSE PROGRAM.
THE PROGRAM SHOULD FOCUS ON
UNARMED PROFESSIONALS FOR
NONVIOLENT SITUATIONS TO REDUCE
THE RISK OF UNNECESSARY USE
OF FORCE AS WELL TO ENHANCE
COMMUNITY TRUST AND TO
ENCOURAGE MORE EFFECTIVE
COMMUNITY BASED SOLUTIONS BY
ENSURING A NON POLICE RESPONSE.
THE ARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM CAN
BE SAFELY SAFELY UTILIZED BY
MORE PEOPLE WHILE
SIMULTANEOUSLY REDUCING THE
NUMBER OF CALLS POLICE ARE
RESPONDING TO.
REDUCING THE NUMBER OF POLICE
RESPONSES WILL ALLEVIATE THE
BURDEN ON ANOTHER POLICE WHILE
FREEING UP EXISTING POLICE
FUNDS FOR OTHER SAFETY TRAINING
PROGRAMS IN THE CITY.
I KINDLY REQUEST THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL TAKE THESE FINDINGS
INTO CONSIDERATION IN ASSESSING
THE RFP FOR AN ARMED RESPONSE
AND MOVING FORWARD WITH ITS
RELEASE.
>> ALSO, WHILE I HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK, I WOULD
ALSO LIKE TO EXTEND MY WISHES
FOR A HAPPY PRIDE MONTH TO ALL
THOSE WHO ARE BEING CELEBRATED
JUNE I'D LIKE TO RECOGNIZE THE
LGBTQ PLUS INDIVIDUALS ARE
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECTED BY
POVERTY, POWERLESSNESS,
CRIMINALIZATION
AND MENTAL
HEALTH CRISES.
THIS MEANS THAT THE LGBTQ
COMMUNITY WOULD BE GREATLY
SUPPORTED BY THIS CREATION
OF ANOTHER AND PUBLIC SAFETY
RESPONSE AND ESPECIALLY BY AN
RFP THAT INCORPORATES THE THREE
KEY FINDINGS THAT I MENTIONED
EARLIER.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
DEDICATION TO IMPROVING PUBLIC
SAFETY IN AMERICA.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR SPEAKER IS MILJAN SLB AS A
FUNNY HEAD ON OUR WORK THREE
DAYS AGO A TWO YEAR OLD TODDLER
WAS SHOT AND KILLED BY ISRAEL
DEFENSE FORCES.
A TWO YEAR OLD WAS SHOT AND
KILLED BY ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES
THIS HORRIFIC NEWS DO YOU THINK
IT WILL MAKE ANY IMPACT ON THE
MEMBERS OF THIS CITY COUNCIL
WHO HAVE FOR TWENTY YEARS HEARD
STOP MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL?
DO YOU THINK IT WILL MAKE ANY
DIFFERENCE TO OUR ESTEEMED HERE
MAYOR TAYLOR?
WOULD IT MAKE ANY DIFFERENCE TO
HIM AND NOT MAKE ANY DIFFERENCE
TO HIM?
WOULD IT MAKE ANY DIFFERENCE TO
MISS HERE HE IS ON THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION THIS MURDER
OF A TWO YEAR OLD MAKE ANY
DIFFERENCE?
>> WOULD IT MAKE THEM SAY MORE
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL?
I DOUBT THAT THE REASON IS THAT
THEY HAVE NO HEART AND ARE
RACIST.
FOR 20 YEARS WE'VE COME HERE
THEY HAVE SAID STOP GIVING
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS EACH YEAR
TO THAT RACIST STATE THAT IS
CALLED ISRAEL.
THEY HAVE DONE AND HAVE NOT
EVEN TALKED ABOUT THIS
RESOLUTION THAT WE BROUGHT TO
THEM.
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HAVE SIGNED
PETITIONS.
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HAVE
PROTESTED OUTSIDE OF THIS
BUILDING.
THEY WILL NOT DO IT AND THE
REASON IS THEY ARE RACIST AND
THEY CARE NOTHING FOR ANNABLE
OR FOR PEOPLE OF PALESTINE.
DO YOU THINK IF THEY GAVE A
RAT'S ABOUT PEOPLE AROUND HERE
THEY WOULD HAVE PUSHED
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY IN
THIS CITY OUT?
NO, WE PASSED THESE THEY HAVE
DONE THAT.
WE LOST THE BLACK COMMUNITY IN
THIS TOWN.
THEY MOVED OUT BECAUSE THEY
CAN'T AFFORD IT.
THEY HAVE MADE SURE THE HOUSING
IS UP BUT EVERYONE ELSE CAN GO
DIE THAT IS THERE THE RECIPE
FOR THE REST OF US THESE PEOPLE
DO NOT REPRESENT THE PUBLIC AT
PRESENT.
THEY HAVE GIVEN THEM MR. MUGABE
NINETY THOUSAND DOLLARS TO GET
BACK INTO THE SEAT.
THESE PEOPLE ARE THE ONES WHO
PAY HUNDREDS AND THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS TO HIS CRONIES NOW
IN THE CITY COUNCIL ARE SITTING
HERE AND DOING EVERYTHING THEY
CAN TO PLEASE THEIR
CONTRIBUTORS.
IT IS NOT THEIR JOB AFTER
HAVING RECEIVED HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS FROM
THEIR CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTORS TO
MALCOLM AND SAVE YOU AND ME AND
ROSS SITTING IN THIS CITY
BESIDE THEM AND YOU THINK THAT
THEY ACTUALLY WILL DO SOMETHING
TO BENEFIT THE PUBLIC, JUST
LOOK AT WHAT THEY HAVE WHAT WE
ARE LIVING IN THIS BODY AT ALL
TO WORRY ABOUT THE DIRTY WATER
THAT WE DON'T KNOW IS THIS MUCH
AND HAD SIXTY YEARS TO FIX IT
HAVE BEEN NO FIFTEEN AFTER
MEMBERS OF THIS COUNCIL HAVE
SAID ENOUGH TIME IS ENOUGH.
>> WE STILL PAY OUR WORKERS
SEVEN AND EIGHT.
SO I'M HERE TO SAY I DO AS MANY
A TEAM AND WE WANT TO STOP
MILITATED OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
HENRY HERSKOVITS
.
GOOD EVENING.
IT APPEARS THAT HISTORICAL
REVISION NEVER RESTS AFTER
DISTRIBUTING MY ADDRESS TO
COUNCIL ON APRIL 17 TO A WIDER
AUDIENCE VIA EMAIL AND
FACEBOOK, I RECEIVED A REPLY
FROM DIANE KING OF TEXAS.
SHE WAS GOING TO DISSEMINATE MY
ADDRESS TO HER EMAIL LIST AND
CAUTIONED ME AGAINST USING A
WORD NAZI CLAIMING IT A
DEROGATORY TERM.
SHE WROTE WE ABHOR THIS TERM.
THE GERMANS NEVER REFERRED TO
THEMSELVES THAT WAY.
IT'S EQUIVALENT TO THE OTHER
ETHNIC SLURS THAT ARE VERBOTEN
.
BUT IT'S OK TO DISPARAGE
GERMANS.
I ALREADY KNEW THAT THE TERM
NAZI ORIGINATED FROM A COUNTRY
BUMPKIN REFERENCE TO GERMANS A
SLUR BASED ON THE COMMON FARM
BOY OR SIMPLE TO NAME IGNAT AND
THE SHORTENING OF THAT NAME TO
NAZI.
THIS KNOWLEDGE WAS SUPPLIED BY
BEN BRADBURY'S BOOK THE MYTH
OF GERMAN VILLAINY.
BUT I DID NOT KNOW THAT
NATIONAL SOCIALISTS NEVER
REFERRED TO THEMSELVES BY THAT
NAME IN MY IGNORANCE I THOUGHT
EVERYONE USE THE TERM.
I ASKED MYSELF WHETHER DIANE
COULD BE CORRECT AND ASK THE
FACEBOOK PUBLIC FOR EVIDENCE TO
COUNTER HER CLAIM.
I WANTED TO BE SHOWN A
REFERENCE BY A GERMAN NATIONAL
SOCIALIST WHO USED THE TERM
NAZI IN A CORRESPONDENCE OR
SPEECH.
I ASK ANYONE HERE IF THEY HAVE
CORROBORATIVE EVIDENCE
OF NATIONAL SOCIALIST
DESCRIBING THEMSELVES AS NAZIS.
NO ONE ON FACEBOOK SUPPLIED
SUCH INFORMATION.
ONE RESPONDENT, THOUGH, ALERTED
ME TO AN ARTICLE THAT EXPLAINED
WHAT DIANE EXPLAINED EXACTLY
WHAT DIANE WAS CLAIMING.
THE ARTICLE REPORTS THAT A
POWERFUL JEWISH JOURNALIST
NAMED CONRAD POPULARIZED THIS
TERM IN THE NINETEEN TWENTIES
AS AN EPITHET MEANT TO DEGRADE
MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL
SOCIALIST WORKER'S PARTY
OF GERMANY APPARENTLY THIS NAME
CALLING STOCK WE ARE LEFT WITH
THE IMPRESSION THAT EVERYONE
USE THE TERM BECAUSE WE MISTAKE
AND WE ARE CONTINUING TO USE IT
TO TWO TAKEAWAYS ONE PEOPLE
GROUP SHOULD BE REFERRED TO AS
THEY DEEM FIT OUR OUR BLACK
COMMUNITY REACT TO BEING
REFERRED TO BY THE N-WORD.
HOWARD, OUR JEWISH COMMUNITY
APPRECIATE BEING OUR OUR JEWISH
COMMUNITY COMMUNITY APPRECIATE
BEING CALLED THE K WORD ABOUT
EITHER GROUP WOULD APPRECIATE
IT.
IT WOULDN'T BE RIGHT.
SECOND, TAKE AWAY PERHAPS THE
SUCCESSFUL NAME CALLING
TECHNIQUE WAS YET ANOTHER
REASON WHY GERMAN JEWS WERE
FOUND IN DISFAVOR BY THEIR
COUNTRYMEN.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN.
THE ISRAELI ARMY HAS JUST SHOT
AND KILLED A TWO YEAR OLD
CHILD.
YOU CAN READ ABOUT IT NBC AND
CBS AND ACROSS THE MASS MEDIA
CITY COUNCIL MEMBER JAN IOR WHO
APPARENTLY HAS RUN AWAY IN FEAR
THAT I MIGHT MENTION THIS AGAIN
CITY COUNCIL MEMBER JENNA IGHER
TOOK MONEY FOR CAMPAIGN FROM
OLD FRIENDS OF THE ISRAEL
DEFENSE FORCES.
REMEMBER ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES
HAVE ROLLED OVER TWO THOUSAND
CHILDREN WHO ARE PALESTINIAN
SINCE THE YEAR 2000 ROUGHLY
SINCE I'VE STARTED COMING HERE
AND TALKING FOR PALESTINIAN
RIGHTS, I STOOD IN THE CITY
COUNCIL IN JUNE TO S AND TO
JUNE OF 2002 AND WAY OVER A
HUNDRED TIMES SINCE THEN
DEMANDING SOME KIND OF ACTION
BY THE CITY COUNCIL TO OBJECT
TO FUNDING THE ISRAELI DEFENSE
FORCES AND THIS CITY COUNCIL
HAS TURNED A HARD COLD SHOULDER
TO THAT AND AFTER TWENTY ONE
YEARS AFTER JUST ABOUT EXACTLY
TWENTY ONE YEARS THIS MONTH I
THINK YOU CAN SAY A PATTERN HAS
DEVELOPED A RACIST PURE RACISM
BY THE CITY COUNCIL AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE AND THEY
WANT YOU TO BELIEVE THAT THEY
LOVE DIVERSITY.
THEY WANT YOU TO BELIEVE THAT
THEY FEEL SORRY THAT THE BLACK
LIVES MATTER MURAL WAS
DESIGNATED IN THE PARK THAT
THEY SHOULD HOW ARE NOT GOING
TO GIVE THE BLACK COMMUNITY ITS
DO IS HOW THIS CITY COUNCIL IS
NOT GOING TO FORCE THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN TO KEEP
ITS PROMISE OF TEN PERCENT
BLACK ADMISSIONS AT MOST THEY
MIGHT ALLOW THE BLACK COMMUNITY
SOME YELLOW PAINT IN THE PARK
THAT SAYS BLACK LIVES MATTER.
THAT'S REALLY NOT ENOUGH AFTER
50 YEARS THAT'S REALLY NOT
ENOUGH.
BUT THIS CITY COUNCIL SO
EXILE'S AT THE SHALLOW COSMETIC
GESTURE THEY WILL SAY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING A HUNDRED
TIMES BUT THEY WILL NEVER GIVE
IT TO YOU ONCE AGAIN APPROVE
THE SIMPLE RESOLUTION HERE WE
ARE AGAINST MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL.
STOP CONTRIBUTING TO THE MURDER
OF PALESTINIAN CHILDREN.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ELLEN
HABOUR
, SUPREME COUNCIL OF OUR
NEIGHBOR.
SOME OF YOU ARE NOT ADDRESSED
BEFORE BUT
MANY ON MANY
OCCASIONS I WAS THINKING IN
RELATION TO THE RESOLUTION YOU
HAVE TO DISBAND THE COUNCIL
OF THE COMMONS AND ACTUALLY
VOTE AGAINST RESOLUTION AND
ANNOUNCED A MINORITY REPORT ON
THE POLITICAL PROCESS HAS A
PROCESS THE PEOPLE VOTED OUT
OF EXISTENCE.
THE COMMONS IS REMOVED FROM THE
ENTIRETY OF THE CENTRAL PARK
AND CIVIC CENTER COMMONS AND
THE RESOLUTIONS AND WORK AT
THIS HOUSE OF THE COMMONS HAS
PUT FORWARD THEY HAVE
ELIMINATED THAT SINCE THE
CENTRAL IDEA OF THIS THAT THE
COMMONS IS COMMONLY POOLED
RESOURCES SELF MANAGED BY THE
USERS.
>> THIS IS WHAT WAS
DEMONSTRATED TO THE IMPACT
OF THE NOBEL PRIZE ECONOMIC AS
THE MOST EFFECTIVE WAY
OF ORGANIZING COMMONLY POURED
RESOURCES MORE EFFECTIVE THAN
HAVING A GOVERNMENT MORE
EFFECTIVE THAN HAVING A PRIVATE
PROFIT CORPORATION.
WHEN THE USERS MANAGE THE
RESOURCES THEY ARE BETTER
MANAGED MORE PRODUCTIVELY AND
MORE HAPPILY.
AND BESIDES JUST LOOKING OUT
FOR AN IDEA, THEY ALSO HAVE
REDUCED THE NOTION TO A PLAZA
NOT A CENTRAL PARK AND THE
ENTIRETY OF THE IDEA OF A CIVIC
CENTER IS REMOVED.
A CEREMONIAL MEETING PLACE AND
VISITOR CENTER FOR PEOPLE
COMING TO ANN ARBOR, A PLACE
WHERE THEY EQUESTRIAN VIA
REGION AND YOU KNOW, EDUCATION
OF ANN ARBOR AND ITS HISTORY.
THE SENSE OF A FOOD SYSTEM HERE
PRODUCING A CAFE THAT HONORS
THE FOOD PRODUCERS OF THIS AREA
THEY MAKE PERFORMANCE SPACE
APPROPRIATE FOR THE COMIC
OPERA.
ONE OF THE FIRST SIGNERS OF THE
PETITION FOR THE COMMONS A
PREFERENCE A WAY TO HAVE A
MEETING PLACE AND A CONNECTION
FOR SOCIAL SERVICES.
THAT'S ANOTHER FUNCTION OF A
CIVIC CENTER REMOVED FROM THE
CONSIDERATION AND A PLACE WHERE
THE FOSTERING OF A CULTURE
OF PEACE AND NONVIOLENCE WHICH
IS ONE OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT CAME OUT OF THE TASK FORCE
AND A PLACE FOR THE VOLUNTEERS
WHO DO THE COMMITTEES TO WORK
TOGETHER.
ALL THIS IS ELIMINATED.
>> I GUESS I'M DONE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LOUIS
VSQUEZ
.
LUIS VASQUEZ.
>> YES.
GREETINGS MR. MAYOR AND ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IT'S KIND OF HARD TO FOLLOW
HOLOCAUST DENIERS AND JEW
HATERS, BUT I'M GOING TO GIVE
IT A GO ON EITAM DC TWO I
WANTED TO EXPRESS MY STRONG
SUPPORT IN FAVOR OF THIS
RESOLUTION WHICH DIRECTS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND STAFF
TO PRIORITIZE PLIMOTH AND
WASHTENAW AVENUES TO BE
REASONED UNDER CHIESI ONE.
MY OPINION IS THAT THIS ACTION
IS LONG OVERDUE AND THAT ANY
FURTHER MODIFICATION OR
REVISIONS TO ONE ZONING CAN
TAKE PLACE LATER.
I URGE CITY COUNCIL TO VOTE YES
TONIGHT ON EITAM DC THREE I
BELIEVE IT IS TELLING THAT THE
COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS VOTED TO
DISSOLVE ITSELF DURING THEIR
LAST MEETING.
>> AS I FIND INDICATIVE OF THE
INEFFECTIVENESS AND DYSFUNCTION
OF THE CRTC AS A BODY AND
OF THE PROCESS OVERALL IN MY
OPINION ONCE THE CENTER OF THE
CITY PROJECT IS PUT INTO THE
HANDS OF THE PARKS ADVISORY
COMMITTEE, THE CITY SHOULD
WASTE NO MORE TIME, NO MORE
MONEY AND NO COOK NO MORE
EFFORT BEYOND THE ANTICIPATED
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS FOR A
DESIGN OF A QUOTE UNQUOTE PARK
OR QUOTE UNQUOTE CIVIC COMMONS
FOR WHICH THE CENTER OF THE
CITY COULD NOT EVEN COME TO A
CONSENSUS OR A DEFINITION
OF AND THAT THE CITY COUNCIL DO
THE RIGHT THING BY PUTTING THE
LIBRARY LOT BACK ON THE BALLOT
WITH A DECISIVE PROPOSAL THAT
WOULD SETTLE ONCE AND FOR ALL.
FIRSTLY THAT WE GET A PROJECT
THAT CAN BE SUPPORTED BY MORE
THAN A BARE MAJORITY OF VOTERS.
SECONDLY, SOMETHING PRECISE AND
EXPLICIT IN TERMS OF FUNDING
FOR SUCH A PROJECT WHETHER IT
BE ANOTHER MARRIAGE OR SOME
OTHER FUNDING MECHANISM.
>> THIRDLY, THAT IF
JURISDICTION IS TO BE UNDER 30
SECONDS ENORMOUS AND PARKS OR
SOME OTHER EXPLICITLY DEFINED
ENTITY THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE.
AND FOURTHLY, I THINK THE CITY
COUNCIL NEEDS TO REVISE THE
CITY CHARTER ONCE AGAIN UNDER A
BALLOT PROPOSAL TO BE ABLE TO
ONCE AGAIN SMELL THE AIR RIGHTS
OR THE LIBRARY LAW TO A
DEVELOPER AND INCLUDE
PROVISIONS FOR AFFORDABLE OR
WORKFORCE HOUSING.
IN ADDITION, I'M ENCOURAGED BY
THE CITY'S EFFORTS TO IMPROVE
LIBERTY PLAZA WHICH FROM MY
OBSERVATION OTC MEETING WAS
NEGLECTED AND PRETTY MUCH IN AN
AFTERTHOUGHT.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PRESIDENT
OBAMA SLUMMY COLLER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN ONE ZERO
ONE.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO MY NAME IS PRAVEEN AROUND
THE COUNTRY AND I LIVE IN 129
REDFOO JUST OFF OF PLANET ROAD.
I AM CALLING IN REGARDS TO THE
DC THREE TWO THREE RESOLUTION.
I AM IN FAVOR OF .
THIS DISCUSSION HAS HAPPENED
FOR MANY YEARS.
MANY OF OUR ELECTED OFFICIALS
HERE TODAY HAVE TALKED ABOUT IT
DURING THEIR CAMPAIGN PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS TALKED ABOUT
WE'VE BEEN HEARING ABOUT IT AND
WE'RE READY TO HAVE SOMETHING
HAPPEN.
WE CANNOT WAIT ANY LONGER.
WE'RE SEEING MORE DEVELOPMENT
COMING MORE AND KNOW WHAT WE
WANT TO THINK ABOUT WHO'S
MOVING INTO OUR AREA.
HOW DOES COMING IN THE GROWTH
FOOD LIVING DOWN FROM THE ROAD
WHERE ARE WE GOING TO SHOP?
HOW ARE WE GOING TO FIGHT WALK?
WE NEED TO REALLY PLAN AND
THINK ABOUT HOW THE FUTURE
OF OUR CITY IS AND WE CAN'T
WAIT ANOTHER TEN YEARS FOR THIS
TO HAPPEN TO KEEP TALKING ABOUT
IT.
>> WE WANT YOU TO DO SOMETHING
ABOUT IT BUT ASK YOU TO PLEASE
APPROVE THIS RESOLUTION AND I
ASK THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
PLEASE GET IT TOGETHER AND
START PUTTING SOMETHING
TOGETHER FOR US ON THE WEEKEND
AS A COMMUNITY HAVE A SPACE
WHERE PEOPLE CAN LIVE OR COME
IN AND OUT OF THE CITY.
>> I REALLY ENCOURAGE YOU TO
MOVE FORWARD.
SO I'M ASKING YOU TO PROCEED
YOU THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LIBBY
BENTON
.
CALL HER THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN THREE TO FOUR.
GO AHEAD.
>> HI, MY NAME IS LIBBY BENTON
.
I LIVE AT TWO THREE FIVE NINE
FAERY STREET AND I'M CALLING IN
FAVOR ASK YOU TO VOTE YES ON
THE RESOLUTION AND TO REASON TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH THE REZONING
IMPLEMENT THROUGHOUT EIGHTY ONE
RIGHT OFF THE ROAD AND IT'S
BEEN A WONDERFUL NEIGHBORHOOD
FOR ME AND MY FAMILY BOTH TO
SCHOOLS AND JOBS AND DAYCARE
AND GROCERY STORES AND
PHARMACIES AND FULL AND
WONDERFUL NEIGHBORS AND I JUST
READ IN THE CITY TO PLEASE MOVE
FORWARD AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE
WITH CHANGES THAT WOULD ALLOW
MORE FAMILIES TO ENJOY THESE
AMENITIES THAT MY FAMILY HAS
ENJOYED MORE HOUSING ON TV WANT
AROUND WHERE THERE'S ALREADY
ACCESS TO THESE GREAT AMENITIES
AND TRANSPORTATION AND I ALSO
SUPPORT THE REZONING WOULD ALSO
IS ALREADY A VERY LOCAL
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WOULD MAKE IT
EVEN MORE WALKABLE AND ALLOW
MORE PEOPLE TO LIVE WITHOUT
WITHOUT HARDER TO USE THEIR
CARS AND DO WALKING AND BIKING.
SO PLEASE MOVE THAT AS QUICKLY
AS POSSIBLE.
UNFORTUNATELY WE'RE ALREADY
SEEING DEVELOPMENTS THAT ARE
GOING TO LOCK IN A CAR CENTRIC
ON THIS ROAD FOR THE NEXT THREE
YEARS AND SO WE NEED TO MOVE
QUICKLY.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
SPEAKER IS NEVER AND I'LL BRIEF
BECAUSE I'M THE LAST ONE AND
I'M SURE YOU'RE TIRED
OF LISTENING TO PUBLIC COMMENT
AT THIS POINT.
MY NAME IS JEAN LEVERAGE AND
I'M A CLINICAL SOCIAL WORKER
WHO LIVES AT NINE TWELVE PAMONA
IN WARD FIVE NOT FAR FROM THE
STADIUM TO SEE ONE AREA OF THE
STADIUM AREA.
CURRENTLY I'M A CLINICAL SOCIAL
WORKER AND I SERVE AS AN AT
LARGE MEMBER OF THE CITY'S
HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD AND I'M REALLY
JUST HERE TO SAY THREE QUICK
THINGS BECAUSE
IT'S BEEN QUITE
A TOUGH WEEK AND IF I MADE
SOMETHING REALLY COMPLICATED I
PROBABLY WOULDN'T HAVE COME TO
TALK AT ALL.
SO THE FIRST THING I WANT TO
SAY IS I WANT TO THANK OUR CITY
STAFF AND CITY COUNCIL FOR
DOING SUCH GOOD WORK AND I WANT
TO SAY LET'S GET MOVING ON TO
ONE ON THE ONE REZONING
OF PLYMOUTH AND WASHTENAW NOW
SO THAT WE DON'T KEEP GETTING
REQUESTS FOR SINGLE STORY
SINGLE USE BUILDING AND DRIVE
THROUGH IF WE DON'T WANT TO
HAVE TO UNDO STUFF, LET'S MAKE
IT EASIER RATHER THAN HARDER TO
BUILD DIFFERENT KINDS
OF HOUSING, DIVERSE HOUSING TO
MEET THE NEEDS OF OUR
ECONOMICALLY AND SOCIALLY
DIVERSE COMMUNITY.
RIGHT.
NOT EVERYBODY WANTS THE SAME
KIND OF HOUSE AND A WHOLE LOT
OF PEOPLE END UP NOT LIVING IN
ANN ARBOR AT ALL AND THEN
COMMUTING IN AND HAVING TO ADD
TO THE GREENHOUSE GASES.
SECONDLY, IT'S A REALLY
EXCITING AGENDA THAT YOU HAVE
TONIGHT.
I WANT TO ALSO WEIGH IN ON ON A
CROSS PROPOSAL.
I STRONGLY SUPPORT FUNDING
UNARMED NON POLICE PUBLIC
SAFETY RESPONSE WITH A
DEDICATED SEPARATE PHONE NUMBER
AND CREATE THAT FROM EXISTING
BUDGET RESOURCES AND I THINK
THAT THAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
BECAUSE WHEN PEOPLE ARE IN
DISTRESS IT'S REALLY GREAT IF
WE CAN HAVE PEOPLE WHO ARE
TRAINED IN CONFLICT MANAGEMENT
WHO ARE JUST COMMUNITY MEMBERS
TO HELP.
THIRDLY, I THINK IT'S REALLY
PAST TIME TO DISSOLVE THE
COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS WHICH
REALLY WAS SUCH A HEARTBREAK
AND HONESTLY A WASTE
OF RESOURCES AND TIME SO THAT
WE CAN FINALLY REALLY BEGIN TO
ACTIVATE THAT PARKING LOT THAT
WE HAVE DOWNTOWN WITH A PUBLIC
SQUARE AND MIXED USE BUILDINGS
THAT HAVE EYES ON THE PLAZA AND
ARE BRINGING THE PUBLIC IN AND
THAT MIGHT LOOK LIKE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AT THIS POINT.
IT MIGHT BE A MIX OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING WITH MIXED USE ON THE
GROUND FLOOR.
BUT I REALLY AM EXCITED THAT
WE'RE MOVING FORWARD AND I DO
HOPE THAT WE BRING THE CITY
CHARTER TO A BALLOT IN THE VERY
NEAR FUTURE SO THAT WE CAN MOVE
FORWARD WITH THAT.
AND SO I JUST REALLY WANT TO
THANK EVERYBODY FOR ALL YOUR
HARD WORK AND JUST REALLY
ENCOURAGE LET'S DO THINGS NOW.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THE
COMMUNICATIONS FROM COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR HAPPY
PRISA TO THE COMMUNITY.
I'M SO GRATEFUL TO MAYOR
TAYLOR, OUR LGBTQ PLUS STAFF
AND COMMUNITY LEADERS WHO CAME
TONIGHT TO CELEBRATE PRIDE
MONTH WITH OUR PROCLAMATION
THIS EVENING.
LAST MONTH I ATTENDED A
CEREMONIAL BILL SIGNING WITH
GOVERNOR ZIMMER TO EXPAND THE
LARSSEN CIVIL RIGHTS ACT
REPRESENTATIVE GRAYBACK, WHO
REPRESENTS ANN ARBOR, RECENTLY
REINTRODUCED LEGISLATION TO BAN
DANGEROUS THE DANGEROUS AND
DISCREDITED PRACTICE
OF CONVERSION THERAPY.
AND WHILE HERE IN MICHIGAN
UNDER DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP WE
HAVE MUCH TO CELEBRATE IN
SUPPORT OF THE QUALITY AND
LGBTQ RIGHTS IN REPUBLICAN
CONTROLLED STATES, LGBTQ
RESIDENTS ARE UNDER RELENTLESS
ATTACK MORE THAN FOUR HUNDRED
ANTI LGBTQ BILLS HAVE BEEN
INTRODUCED ACROSS THE COUNTRY
ALREADY THIS YEAR.
INSTEAD OF FOCUSING ON REAL
ISSUES LIKE HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY, REDUCING GUN
VIOLENCE, IMPROVING PUBLIC
EDUCATION, EXPANDING ACCESS TO
MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT OR
IMPROVING OUR INFRASTRUCTURE,
REPUBLICAN POLITICIANS ARE
RELENTLESSLY ATTACKING THEIR
LGBTQ CONSTITUENTS, THEIR OWN
NEIGHBORS, THEIR FRIENDS AND
FAMILY MEMBERS AND EVEN THEIR
COLLEAGUES TO SCORE
CHEAP POLITICAL POINTS WITH THE
MOST EXTREME HATEFUL FRINGES
OF THE RIGHT WING BASE.
THIS NOW INCLUDES A RIDICULOUS
WAR ON MICKEY MOUSE LED BY A
FUTURE FOOTNOTE IN THE TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY.
MANY OF THESE DISCRIMINATORY
BILLS SPECIFICALLY TARGET
TRANSGENDER CHILDREN, INCLUDING
COUNTLESS BILLS THREATENING TO
LIMIT ACCESS A LIFESAVING CARE
AND AND THROUGH THE ATTACKS
THEMSELVES ENDANGERING THEIR
LIVES.
THESE BILLS ARE DANGEROUS,
DISCRIMINATORY AND SEEK TO
HARASS OUR COMMUNITY.
NOW IS NOT THE TIME FOR US TO
BACK DOWN OR TO TAKE OUR RECENT
WINS FOR GRANTED.
AND SO WITH THAT IN MIND, I
ALSO INVITE OUR COMMUNITY TO
JOIN IN A CELEBRATION OF A
SUMMER OF PRIDE ACTIVITIES BOTH
IN CELEBRATION AND IN A CALL TO
ACTIVISM LOCALLY PRIDE MONTH
KICKED OFF IN YPSILANTI ON
FRIDAY AND WILL CONTINUE
THROUGH AT LEAST AUGUST 5TH
WHEN WHAT WE CELEBRATED ON MAIN
STREET THIS YEAR YOU CAN LEARN
MORE AND GET INVOLVED IN OVER
PRIDE AND I ALSO ENCOURAGE YOU
TO GET INVOLVED THROUGH
COUNTLESS COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE THE GYM TO
COMMUNITY CENTER STAND WITH
TRANS VICTORY FUND, THE HUMAN
RIGHTS CAMPAIGN AND SO MANY
OTHERS DOING GOOD WORK TO
SUPPORT OUR LGBTQ COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, COLONEL.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU VERY
DENHA FOR YOUR COMMENTS.
JUST A COUPLE OF QUICK
ANNOUNCEMENTS.
REMINDER TO EVERYONE THAT THE
MAIN STREET AREA ASSOCIATIONS
TO OUR STREETS IS NOW UNDERWAY.
THERE ARE LOCAL MUSICIANS
PERFORMING THROUGHOUT THE MAIN
STREET AREA EVERY SINGLE
THURSDAY NIGHT FROM JUNE UNTIL
AUGUST FROM SEVEN TO NINE P.M.
LOTS OF MERCHANTS DOWNTOWN,
ESPECIALLY THOSE WHO ARE
AFFECTED BY SOME OF THE
CONSTRUCTION THAT ARE HAPPENING
WHO ARE OPENING THEIR DOORS AND
HAVING SALES AND ALL KINDS
OF FUN.
SO PLEASE COME DOWNTOWN AND
ENJOY THE CLOSED STREET AND
ENTERTAINMENT SALES.
THE THIRD ANNUAL EIGHT ZERO
WEEK IS GOING ON RIGHT NOW
UNTIL JUNE 10TH.
SOME OF THE EVENTS ARE LOVER
PARK THE CLIMATE BOARD GAME
NIGHT AND MY ABSOLUTE FAVORITE
GET TO KNOW YOUR WILD NEIGHBORS
AS PART OF AND AS PART OF THE
SUMMER FESTIVAL KICKOFF
WEEKEND.
THEY'RE HAVING A INCLUDING KIDS
ACTIVITIES SO I ENCOURAGE
EVERYONE TO CHECK THAT OUT.
THE ARTS AND CREATIVE
INDUSTRIES ECONOMIC RECOVERY ,
AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT
ALLOCATION THAT CITY COUNCIL
PREVIOUSLY HAD APPROVED IS NOW
OPEN APPLICATIONS FOR THOSE
GRANTS.
AND SO IF YOU GO TO CREATIVE
WASHTENAW DOG YOU CAN FIND
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
INCLUDING HOW TO APPLY FOR THAT
.
IMPORTANTLY, DATE TO NOTE IS IF
YOU ARE IN THE ARTS AND
CREATIVE INDUSTRY THERE IS AN
INFORMATION SESSION THAT WILL
BE VIRTUAL AND IT IS ON JUNE
12TH FROM FOUR TO FIVE THIRTY
P.M. AND AGAIN DETAILS FOR HOW
TO REGISTER FOR ARE THE
CREATIVE WASHTENAW THAT ORG
WEBSITE AND FINALLY CUT SOME
OF OUR BIGS AND I WILL NOT BE
HAVING LISTENING EARLIER THIS
MONTH DUE TO FATHER'S DAY.
SO OUR NEXT ONE WILL BE ON
SUNDAY, JULY 16TH AT FOUR P.M.
AT THE ATC.
THANK YOU CATS NO HECKMANN.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO LET PEOPLE KNOW
THAT THIS COMING WEDNESDAY AT
SIX P.M. THE CITY IS HAVING A
SECOND PUBLIC MEETING ABOUT
ROAD CONFIGURATION DESIGNS FOR
GREENVIEW BETWEEN STADIUM AND
SAY OF CHURCH.
THIS IS A PROJECT THAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN NEXT YEAR BUT RIGHT
NOW THEY'RE DOING THE PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT DESIGN PROCESS.
SO DURING THIS MEETING AT THE
PITTSFIELD LIBRARY, THE STAFF
WILL PRESENT SEVERAL PROPOSED
DESIGN OPTIONS THAT WERE BASED
ON THE FIRST PUBLIC FEEDBACK
SESSION AND RESIDENTS WILL HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO PROVIDE
FEEDBACK.
SO AGAIN, SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY
WEDNESDAY AT THE PITTSFIELD
BRANCH OF THE LIBRARY.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER CARSON
.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I WANTED TO ANNOUNCE THE NAACP
TWENTY NINTH ANNUAL JUNETEENTH
CELEBRATION AND COMMUNITY UNITY
WALK WHICH WILL BE ON SATURDAY
,JUNE 17TH.
IT WILL BEGIN WITH THE
COMMUNITY UNITY WALK AT FULLER
PARK AT 10 A.M. 15 19 FULLER
ROAD.
THERE WILL BE FOOD
ENTERTAINMENT VENDORS YOUTH
ACTIVITIES.
FOLLOWING THE WALK WILL BE THE
JUNETEENTH CELEBRATION AT
WHEELER PARK.
TWO HUNDRED DEPOT STREET AND
THAT WILL BE FROM NOON TO SIX
PM THERE'LL BE CAKE WALK FREE
PARKING FREE BICYCLE REPAIR AND
MAINTENANCE ASSISTANCE FOR
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OR TO
VOLUNTEER YOU CAN GO TO THAT TO
ENABLE ACP DOG SO HOPING TO SEE
LOTS OF FOLKS THERE.
THANK YOU KOTSENBURG 01.
>> I THANK YOU MAN.
SO I WANTED TO SHARE THAT MY
WORK COLLEAGUE AND MYSELF ARE
GOING TO BE HAVING QUITE
POPULAR MY ON PLATERO THERE
WILL BE THIS SUNDAY AT 11:00
A.M. WE WILL BE FEATURING
SPECIAL GUEST DR. MISSY STEPS
OR THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATIONS.
SO PLEASE COME DOWN WITH THREE
NEIGHBORS AND JOIN US.
THANK YOU.
REMEMBER BRIGS.
THANK YOU IN ADDITION TO THE
EVENTS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL GAVE A PLUG FOR, I LIKE
TO GIVE ONE MORE.
WE HAVE A ALBUQUERQUE
DEPARTMENT HAS A NUMBER
OF STEWARDSHIP DATES THROUGHOUT
THE SUMMER AT A VARIETY
OF DIFFERENT PARKS BUT THERE IS
ONE THERE ARE MONTHLY
STEWARDSHIP DAYS AT WEST PARK.
THE NEXT ONE IS ON SATURDAY,
JUNE 17TH FROM ONE TO THREE
P.M. I HOPE FOLKS WILL COME
DOWN AND VOLUNTEER TO CLEAN UP
THE PARK, KEEP IT LOOKING GOOD
THIS SUMMER AND THEN ALSO I
JUST WANTED TO SPEAK TO THE
RESIDENTS OF THE FIFTH WARD WHO
A NUMBER OF FOLKS WERE HAD
EXPERIENCED A VERY SEVERE POWER
SURGE LAST WEEK AND HAD MANY
OF THEIR APPLIANCES DAMAGED
THROUGH THAT OR A PRETTY
EXTENSIVE LOSSES.
I WANTED TO LET FOLKS KNOW
WE'VE BEEN RESPONDING TO
COMMUNICATIONS OF CORNELL AND I
WE'RE ALSO VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
THIS AND TRYING TO INVESTIGATE
WHAT COULD HAVE BEEN DONE AND
WHAT COULD BE DONE IN THE
FUTURE.
SOME FOLKS MAY HAVE SEEN THE
DR. STOLTZ FROM THE THE OUR
DIRECTOR OF OFFICES
OF SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATIONS
MADE A POST ABOUT THIS ON NEXT
DOOR.
BUT SHE IS COLLECTING TESTIMONY
FOR THE MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION WHICH INCLUDES
DETAILS ABOUT THE UNRELIABILITY
OF THE GRID.
SO IF YOU'D LIKE TO SHARE YOUR
STORY WITH HER, SHE'S HAPPY TO
INTEGRATE THAT INTO HER
TESTIMONY.
SO YOU SENT HER AN EMAIL AND I
ENCOURAGE YOU TO COPY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL AND I ON THAT AS
WELL.
HER EMAIL IS M STULTS AT TWO
BIG COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON REGU
.
THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW, IN LIGHT OF MY KIND
OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO
ENGAGEMENT, I'D LIKE TO
ANNOUNCE MY NEXT CONSTITUENT
COFFEE HOUR WHICH WILL BE JUNE
TWENTY FIFTH FROM THREE TO FIVE
P.M. AT SWEETWATERS ON PLYMOUTH
AND GREEN AND YOU KNOW IN LIGHT
OF PUBLIC COMMENTS AND I ALSO
LIKE TO NOTE THAT I
WILL BE I
SPOKE WITH MISS CARMENT ON
FRIDAY, HEARD MANY OF HER
COMMENTS AND WE'LL DISCUSS
THOSE AT THE APPROPRIATE POINT
IN THE AGENDA.
BUT I TOLD HER FOR TWO REASONS
AS WELL THAT BA SORRY BARRING
CATASTROPHE I'LL BE ATTENDING
THE ANNUAL MEETING THIS COMING
WEDNESDAY AT SEVEN P.M. AT
OHASHI.
POUL AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
MEETINGS FORMAL AND FORMAL,
FORMAL AND INFORMAL OF WARD TO
RESIDENCE AS WE SEEK TO REFINE
THE TSAY ONE PLANS FOR PLYMOUTH
EMOTIONAL ON ONE OTHER NOTE.
OH YOU'VE GOT IT ALL I'VE GOT
IT.
YOU KNOW I DON'T KNOW I JUST
WANT TO SPEAK TO THIS PAST
WEEKEND I ATTENDED THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN FESTIVAL IN
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
IT WAS ESPECIALLY POIGNANT I
THINK BECAUSE I TOOK A SECOND
TO DETOUR TO THE SITE OF THE
FUTURE SITE OF THE CATHERINE
STREET DEVELOPMENT.
JUST WALK THROUGH THE PARK ONE
MORE TIME AND I DON'T KNOW I
THOUGHT THAT THAT WAS A
POIGNANT MOMENT HERE.
I ALSO WANTED TO MENTION LAST
WEEK I ATTENDED THE ANNUAL
MEETING OF THE JEWISH
FEDERATION.
SO A LOT OF WORD TO
CONSTITUENTS AND I ALSO HEARD A
SPEECH FROM FORMER
CONGRESSWOMAN BRENDA LAWRENCE,
A BLACK WOMAN WHO REPRESENTED A
DISTRICT THAT INCLUDES THE
HIGHEST THAT INCLUDED THE
HIGHEST JEWISH POPULATION BY
PERCENTAGE IN THE HOUSE IN HER
POST CAREER SHE HAS CHOSEN TO
BECOME PRESIDENT OF SHARE THE
HONEY, A NONPROFIT DEDICATED TO
RAISING AWARENESS OF THE SHARED
HISTORY AND COLLABORATION
OF THE BLACK AND JEWISH PEOPLE
IN AMERICA.
AS SHE SAID, WE CAN'T COMPARE
SCARS THE JEWISH EXPERIENCE,
THE HOLOCAUST AND THE BLACK
EXPERIENCE OF SLAVERY.
BUT WE CAN SHARE EMPATHY.
YOU KNOW IT'S A SEASON
OF INTERSECTIONALITY IN JUNE AS
WELL BECAUSE THIS PRIDE MONTH
I'M THINKING OF THE LGBTQ PLUS
FRIENDS, CLASSMATES, TEACHERS,
PRIESTS AND COLLEAGUES ALL NEW
WHOSE FRIENDSHIP, SUPPORT AND
MENTORSHIP HAVE MADE ME INTO
THE MAN I AM TODAY.
I KNEW WHEN I RAN FOR OFFICE
THAT PUBLIC IS A PLACE FOR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO EXERCISE
THEIR FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS
AND ALL THAT THAT IS SADLY THAT
HAS SADLY COME TO ENTAIL IN ANN
ARBOR SPECIFICALLY.
BUT I WOULD POINT OUT REGULARLY
HEARING HOLOCAUST DENIAL AND
HATE SPEECH IN THIS CHAMBER
WHILE TRYING TO SERVE MY
COMMUNITY IS THE HARDEST PART
OF THIS JOB AND I BELIEVE IT
ACTIVELY DISCOURAGES MEMBERS
OF ANY RACIAL OR RELIGIOUS
MINORITY FROM SITTING IN MY
CHAIR AND SEEKING AND THOSE
THAT WISH TO SEEK THE HONOR AND
PRIVILEGE OF REPRESENTING OUR
RIGHTS.
I CAME IN ALL MY COLLEAGUES WHO
HAVE STEPPED UP TO SERVE IN THE
FACE OF THIS RHETORIC AND I
HOPE THOSE WATCHING AT HOME
WHATEVER BACKGROUND THEY COME
FROM ARE NOT DISCOURAGED FROM
ONE DAY FOLLOWING SUIT.
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN.
THANK YOU FOR THOSE WORDS.
COUNCILMAN, YOUR MENTION
OF WONDERFUL AFRICAN-AMERICAN
CULTURAL FESTIVAL ON SATURDAY
REMINDED ME WHEN YOU SAID AND I
WENT TO LOOK AT CATHERINE
STREET IT REMINDED ME THAT THE
CITIZENS EXCUSE ME THE
COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP COUNCIL IS
GOING TO HOST A PUBLIC EVENT
FOR THE KATHERINE PROJECT A
WEEK FROM FRIDAY SO THAT BY
FRIDAY JUNE 16TH FROM FIVE
THIRTY TO EIGHT PM.
SO COME DOWN TO CATHERINE
STREET, COME DOWN TO CARRIE
TOWN, LISTEN TO WHERE THE
PROJECT IS NOW AND OFFER
COMMENTS AND IDEAS FOR HOW IT
CAN CONTINUE TO EVOLVE IN THE
FUTURE.
AND I OFFER THAT AS A TEACHER
TO THE PUBLIC AND ALSO TO ALL
OF US SITTING HERE.
THERE IS A THERE SOON WILL BE A
FORMAL EVENT PAGE AND I WILL
CERTAINLY SHARE THAT WITH MY
CONSTITUENTS WHO SUBSCRIBE TO
MY NEWSLETTER AND WITH MY
COLLEAGUES HERE WHO CANNOT DO
ANYTHING ABOUT THE FACT THAT I
EMAIL THEM FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER SOL.
I'D LIKE TO THANK FOLKS FOR
COMING OUT TO THE GLACIER
HIGHLAND'S MEMORIAL DAY PARADE
LAST WEEK.
AS ALWAYS, WE HAVE A WE HAD A
PRETTY STRONG TURNOUT.
I THINK WE HAD ABOUT SEVEN
HUNDRED PEOPLE IN IT AND THAT'S
USUALLY THE OPPORTUNITY FOR OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD TO COME OUT FROM
THE WOODWORK.
IT'S LIKE TO MEET EACH OTHER
AFTER A LONG WINTER.
SO IT WAS REALLY NICE TO SEE
FOLKS CONNECT HONOR OUR OUR
OF OUR VETERANS, THE MAYORS.
I DELIVERED SOME REMARKS ON
BEHALF OF CONGRESSWOMAN DINGELL
WHO COULDN'T MAKE IT AND I ALSO
LIKE TO THANK THE NEIGHBOR FIRE
DEPARTMENT FOR COMING AND
MAKING THAT EXTRA EFFORT TO
COME AND BRING A TRUCK AND
ENGAGE WITH CHILDREN IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
KIND OF FOLLOWING UP ON COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON'S COMMENTS.
THIS IS ALSO A SEASON FOR BAR
MITZVAHS AND BAT MITZVAHS FOR
MY FAMILY.
MY CHILDREN HAVE BEEN ATTENDING
A NUMBER OF THESE CELEBRATIONS
WHICH WHICH BEGIN WITH A
MULTIGENERATIONAL CELEBRATION
IN THE IN THE MORNINGS AT OUR
LOCAL SYNAGOGUES.
I'VE BEEN SO HONORED TO HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO OBSERVE THIS THIS
PASSING OF HISTORY OF OF
OF SUFFERING AND HONORING THAT
CONTINUOUS WORK AND PRESERVING
THE HISTORY AND STORIES OF OUR
FELLOW COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
>> I ALSO SHOULD NOTE THAT THE
FAMILIES HAVE HAD TO ENGAGE
SECURITY.
>> THEY ENGAGE SECURITY FOR
THEIR CHILDREN'S COMING OF AGE
.
THEY HAVE TO WARN GUESTS THAT
THERE ARE PROTESTERS WHEN THEY
ARRIVE FROM OUTSIDE OF ANN
ARBOR AND THAT SOMEHOW THAT'S
NORMAL IN ANN ARBOR AND THAT
SOMEHOW GENERATIONS OF JEWISH
AND RIGHTS HAVE TO EXPECT THAT
AS BEING NORMAL.
>> THAT'S A SHAME WHEN MY
CHILDREN CELEBRATE THEIR
BIRTHDAYS THEY DON'T HAVE TO
ENGAGE SECURITY.
THEY DON'T HAVE TO WARN GUESTS
THAT THEY MIGHT BE HARASSED
.
>> I HOPE AS WE TAKE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO CELEBRATE MONTHS
HONORING DIFFERENT COMMUNITIES
OF COLOR, PRIDE MONTH AND
STRUGGLE, WE DO TAKE NOTE THAT
THERE ARE REASONS WE HAVE TO
MAKE THESE PROCLAMATIONS AND
INVITE COMMUNITIES TO HONOR
THAT WORK.
IT'S JUST IT'S NOT A NOTICE.
IT'S NOT A DAY.
IT'S NOT A MONTH.
IT'S EVERY DAY WORK THAT WE
MAKE SURE THAT FOLKS ARE LOVED
AND CARED FOR AND RESPECTED
HERE AND NOT SCARED TO GO ON
AND CELEBRATE WHAT WE NORMALLY
CELEBRATE AND NOT TO FEAR.
THANKS FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION.
THE FOLLOWING APPOINTMENTS ARE
PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION TO MAY FIFTEEN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE REGULAR
SESSION TO THE ROGERS
COMMISSION WAS ANITA RADCLYFFE
KIMBERLY IT'S TRULY A GOOD MAN.
A MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER FOR DENHA SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE MOTION
ON FAVOR POST PROVED I'D LIKE
TO RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING
NOMINATION FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION JACOB SANDREW AND TO
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION BENJAMIN KAMERON
.
WE HAVE THE FIRST THE CONSENT
OF GENTLEMEN THE MOTION TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT THE GENERAL
COUNSEL PRODUCED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT TO GENDER COUNCIL
MEMBER IA.
I'D LIKE TO REMOVE AS C TWELVE
FOR DISCUSSION PLEASE
DISCUSSION KATHIRESAN I'D LIKE
TO SEE ONE PLEASE FOR THE
DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OF THE
CONSENT THE GENDER WITH THE
EXCEPTION C 2021 PCI POST THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF C TWENTY TWENTY
ONE IS APPROVED.
THE ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THAT SATISFIED THE
VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT
TO A FIVE C SEVENTEEN C
EIGHTEEN NINETEEN C ELEVEN.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND C A
TWENTY THREE C C A TWELVE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT WITH THE
EXCAVATING INC FOR THE
PONTIAC'S SWIFT MORE AND WHITE
QUARTERMAIN RESURFACING PROJECT
THE AMOUNT OF TWO MILLION SEVEN
HUNDRED AND FIFTY NINE THOUSAND
TWO HUNDRED NINETY THREE
DOLLARS AND FORTY TWO CENTS AND
TO APPROPRIATE TWO MILLION
THREE HUNDRED SIXTEEN THOUSAND
IN CONTRIBUTING FUNDS MOVE BY
COUNCILOR HIRE A SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BACKBURN
DISCUSSION OF TWELVE CUSTOMER
ER THANK YOU.
IT'S FRUSTRATING TO HAVE TO
WASTE TIME ON THIS TONIGHT BUT
HERE WE ARE.
I I WANT TO MAKE A BRIEF
COMMENT ABOUT FALSE INFORMATION
REGARDING THIS CONTRACT THAT
WAS PUBLISHED BY A FORMER
COUNCIL MEMBER FROM A COUNCIL
MEMBER FROM THE FOURTH WARD
ELIZABETH NELSON ALTHOUGH SHE
LOST HER LAST ELECTION FAIRLY
AND DECISIVELY, SHE HAS
CONTINUED TO PUSH CONSPIRACY
THEORIES THROUGH HER BLOG AND
NEWSLETTER AND HAS WORKED TO
SOW DISTRUST IN OUR LOCAL
DEMOCRATIC SYSTEMS.
SO WHILE I WOULD PREFER NOT TO
GIVE THESE RANTINGS ER ENOUGH
OF MY CONSTITUENTS SEE THEM
THAT I FEEL ETHICALLY BOUND TO
CORRECT THE RECORD REGARDING
THIS PARTICULAR CONTRACT, SHE
NOTED THAT THE CONTRACTOR IS
EXPERIENCE MODIFICATION RATING
FOR THE YEAR TWENTY ONE TWENTY
TWO HAD CHANGED IN ITS MOST
RECENT PROPOSAL AS COMPARED TO
PREVIOUS ONES NOW FOR THE
UNINITIATED THE EMR IS A METRIC
USED BY INSURANCE CARRIERS TO
GAUGE BOTH THE PAST COST OF A
WORKER'S WORKER'S COMPENSATION
CLAIMS AS WELL AS THE FUTURE
PROBABILITY OF ADDITIONAL
COSTS.
IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT THE
SYSTEM IS BASED ON SELF
REPORTING AND IT IS SOMETIMES
THE CASE THAT THE CONTRACTORS
HIRE REFLECTS A WILLINGNESS TO
REPORT CLAIMS RATHER THAN
ACTUALLY HAVING UNSAFE WORKING
ENVIRONMENT AND VICE VERSA.
HOWEVER, IN THIS CASE THE
FORMER COUNCIL MEMBER ASSERTED
INCORRECTLY THAT AN MRI FOR A
GIVEN YEAR CAN NEVER CHANGE.
AND FINALLY SHE INSINUATED THAT
THE CONTRACTORS INSURANCE
COMPANY MUST HAVE FALSIFIED THE
DOCUMENT.
THIS IS REPREHENSIBLE
.
IT'S ALSO POTENTIALLY LIBELOUS
BUT I'LL LEAVE THAT TO THE
ATTORNEYS.
>> WHAT I WILL SAY IS THAT WHEN
I NOTICE THE CHANGE I CHECKED
IT OUT AND I FOUND A PERFECTLY
REASONABLE EXPLANATION.
THE CONTRACTOR HAD AN
OUTSTANDING WORKER'S COMP CLAIM
FOR THAT PARTICULAR CALENDAR
YEAR THAT WAS RECENTLY CLOSED
AND THEY WERE FOUND TO NOT BE
AT FAULT.
THEREFORE THEIR EMR EMR FOR
THAT YEAR HAS NOW DECREASED.
THIS IS VERY UNFORTUNATELY NOT
THE FIRST TIME THIS FORMER
COUNCIL MEMBER HAS ATTACKED
THIS PARTICULAR CONTRACTOR.
IT'S VERY CURIOUS.
I'M CALLING ON NELSON TO POST
AND SEND OUT A RETRACTION AND
AN APOLOGY TO BOTH BAILEY
EXCAVATING AND BARKER WEBER
INSURANCE AGENCY.
I DO HOPE THAT READERS OF HER
BLOG AND NEWSLETTER WILL TAKE
NOTE AS THE SAYING GOES FOOL ME
ONCE.
SHAME ON YOU FOOL ME TWICE
SHAME ON ME FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF POST IS APPROVED.
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTED AFFIRMATIVE THAT
SATISFYING THE REQUIREMENTS THE
TWENTY ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE SAID RECIPIENT GRANT
AGREEMENT WITH REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN FOR
RESEARCH AND ADMINISTRATION
OF THE ABOVE GUARANTEED AND
PROGRAM IN THE AMOUNT OF ONE
MILLION SIX HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBERS
SONG SECOND BY COUNCIL
MURKOWSKI EDWYN DISCUSSION DACA
TWENTY ONE MR. FOURNIER
UNDERSTAND HAS AN INTRODUCTION
UNLESS I'M MISTAKEN I BELIEVE
THAT I DO AND THE COUNCIL NO
LONGER NEEDS IT RIGHT.
HI EVERYBODY GOOD EVENING.
INTRODUCED SO WE RECEIVED A
NUMBER OF QUESTIONS FROM
COUNCIL MEMBERS OVER THE LAST
DAY BEFORE I GET INTO
ADDRESSING A LOT OF THOSE
QUESTIONS I WANT TO INTRODUCE
TO MEMBERS OF THE RESEARCH TEAM
WHO ARE HERE WITH US TONIGHT
DR. CHRISTENSEN.
HE FELT TREVOR BECHTEL AND WE
ALSO HAVE TWO MEMBERS HERE
VIRTUALLY WHO WOULDN'T WE GET
TO ANSWERING SOME OF THE
QUESTIONS?
I'LL HAVE THEM INTRODUCE.
BUT I DO WANT TO START OFF AND
TALK BRIEFLY KNOCKED OUT A
NUMBER OF THE QUESTIONS WITH
SOME GENERAL REMARKS DISCUSSING
THE PROGRAM AND I'LL START BY
TALKING GENERALLY ABOUT WHY WHO
AND WHAT SHOULD THE COUNCIL
APPROVE THIS CONTRACT TONIGHT
ANN ARBOR WILL JOIN A
NATIONWIDE COMMUNITY OF CITIES
THAT SUPPORT GUARANTEED INCOME
AND UNIVERSAL BASIC INCOME
PILOTS.
WE WANTED TO DO SOMETHING
DIFFERENT AS A MATTER OF FACT,
WHEN WE ISSUED OUR RFP FOR THIS
PROJECT WE ASKED RESPONDENTS TO
GIVE US A NOVEL APPROACH AND A
COUPLE OF IMPORTANT REASONS WHY
THIS IS A PILOT.
IT'S A TIME LIMITED PROGRAM.
IT WELL AT SOME POINT COME TO
AN END AND WHILE OUR MAIN
OBJECTIVE IS TO PROVIDE
IMPORTANT SUPPORT TO THE
FAMILIES WHO WILL BE ENROLLED
IN THE PROGRAM, IT WAS ALSO
IMPORTANT FOR US TO DO
SOMETHING OF VALUE THAT COULD
BE LEFT BEHIND TO CITIES WHO
WANT TO DO THIS AGAIN EITHER
HAVE A SECOND PROGRAM OR START
ONE ON THEIR OWN.
SO WE WANTED TO HAVE A PIECE
OF SOCIAL SCIENCE THAT WAS
QUALITY THAT REFLECTED THE
NATURE OF POVERTY IN THIS
COMMUNITY AND POTENTIALLY IN
OTHER COMMUNITIES AND THAT
PEOPLE COULD USE TO DRAW ON TO
BUILD IMPORTANT LESSONS AND DO
SOMETHING DIFFERENT AND PUSH
THE ENVELOPE ON UNIVERSAL BASIC
INCOME.
AND SO THE RESPONSE THAT WE GOT
FROM POVERTY SOLUTIONS MET THAT
CALL AND WHAT THEY ASKED FOR
EXCUSE ME WHAT THEY CALLED FOR
WAS A PILOT THAT WANTED TO
EXAMINE THE NATURE OF UNIVERSAL
BASIC INCOME AND HOW IT CAN
AFFECT ENTREPRENEURSHIP BUT A
CERTAIN KIND
OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP.
AND I WANT TO GET INTO TALKING
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THAT THIS IS
A PROGRAM THAT IS TARGETED AT
LOW AND MODERATE INCOME
HOUSEHOLDS.
THAT'S THE NUMBER ONE CRITERIA
IN AMONG THESE HOUSEHOLDS
PEOPLE WHO ARE DOING EVERYTHING
THEY CAN TO GET BY.
THERE IS ENTREPRENEURSHIP THAT
HAPPENS.
IT COULD BE GIG WORK OR SIDE
HOUSEHOLDS IN THE HOUSEHOLD I
GREW UP IN.
MY MOM WAS A STAY AT HOME MOM
BUT SHE MADE WEDDING CAKES OUT
OF OUR KITCHEN AND THAT WAS A
REALLY IMPORTANT SOURCE
OF INCOME FOR OUR FAMILY AND SO
THE COMMUNITIES OR EXCUSE ME
FAMILIES LIKE THAT ALL ACROSS
OUR COMMUNITY IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND IT'S AN
IMPORTANT QUESTION TO ASK
BECAUSE IN CITIES ALL ACROSS
THE COUNTRY WHEN WE SEE
GUARANTEED INCOME PROGRAMS
THERE ARE ALWAYS CRITICS WHO
STEP UP AND SAY GIVING AWAY
FREE MONEY FOR NOTHING WILL
CAUSE PEOPLE NOT TO WORK NOW
PILOT AND PILOT ACROSS THE
COUNTRY, I THINK WE'RE ABLE TO
SHOW THAT THAT'S NOT THE CASE
BUT IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND WHY AND IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO TRY TO FIND WAYS
TO DESIGN THESE PROGRAMS IN THE
FUTURE SO THAT THEY CAN PRODUCE
BETTER HEALTH AND WELLNESS
OUTCOMES FOR FAMILIES AND
PRODUCE BETTER ECONOMIC
OUTCOMES FOR THEM AS WELL.
AND SO WE WANT TO ENROLL
FAMILIES THAT ARE INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE FROM LOW OR MODERATE
INCOME HOUSEHOLDS WHO ARE
ENGAGED IN THAT KIND OF LOW
LEVEL ENTREPRENEURSHIP.
AND WE WANT TO ASK WHAT DOES
THIS PROGRAM DO TO THAT
ACTIVITY?
DOES IT MAKE THEM STEP IT UP
AND TO DO MORE?
DOES IT MAKE THEM SAY YOU KNOW
WHAT, I'M GOOD, I'M GOING TO
TAKE THIS MONEY AND INVEST
SOMEWHERE ELSE OR DOES IT MAKE
THEM SAY, YOU KNOW WHAT, I WORK
HARD ENOUGH AS IT IS AND I
DON'T WANT TO DO THIS ANYMORE
AND STOP THE ACTIVITY ENTIRELY
IN ALL THREE OF THOSE CASES
THAT I SUSPECT WE WILL FIND ALL
THREE OF THOSE CASES.
DOES THAT IMPACT THEIR HEALTH
AND AND WELLNESS AND HOW DOES
IT DO?
THAT'S WHAT WE WANT TO ANSWER
AND THAT'S WHAT WE WANT TO FIND
OUT THROUGH THIS PROGRAM.
SO WE RECEIVED A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT WHO WILL BE
ELIGIBLE.
LIKE I SAID, THE NUMBER ONE
CRITERIA IS LOW AND MODERATE
INCOME HOUSEHOLDS.
THERE WILL BE AN AMENDMENT
OFFERED TONIGHT THAT REQUIRES
THOSE HOUSEHOLDS TO BE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS, MEMBERS
OF THOSE HOUSEHOLDS TO BE CITY
IN ANN ARBOR, RESIDENTS.
BUT THAT'S THE TOP LINE
CRITERIA.
THERE'S NOT A WHOLE LOT
OF DETAIL OTHER THAN THAT AND I
THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND WHY FOR THAT REASON
AS WELL THE RESEARCH AND
ADMINISTRATION WORKING WITH THE
CITY WILL BE PARTNERING WITH
SERVICE PROVIDERS AND
ORGANIZATIONS FROM ACROSS THE
CITY WHO DEAL WITH LOW AND
MODERATE INCOME HOUSEHOLDS AND
PEOPLE IN THOSE HOUSEHOLDS AND
WE WILL BE CONSTRUCTING THOSE
CRITERIA IN CONVERSATION WITH
THEM TIME AND AGAIN WE PROVE
ALL THE TIME THAT WE CAN
PROBABLY SIT IN CITY HALL AND
PUT TOGETHER PROGRAM CRITERIA
THAT MEET I DON'T KNOW, 70 80
PERCENT OF NEED.
BUT YOU GET OVER THAT HUMP TO
REALLY FANTASTIC PROGRAMS BY
ENGAGING PEOPLE IN THE
COMMUNITY AND HAVING
CONVERSATIONS WITH THEM TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THEIR NEEDS
ARE.
SO YOU'RE NOT GOING TO SEE
REALLY DETAILED ELIGIBILITY AND
ENROLLMENT CRITERIA WITHIN THE
RFP BECAUSE THAT COMES AFTER
THE CONTRACT IS APPROVED AND IN
CONVERSATION WITH COMMUNITY
MEMBERS.
LAST THING IS WHAT DO WE HOPE
TO ACHIEVE AND IT'S TWO
IMPORTANT GOALS.
LIKE I SAID, WE WANT TO PROVIDE
SUPPORT TO HOUSEHOLDS AND
FAMILIES IN ANN ARBOR WHO NEED
IT WHO ARE ADVERSELY AFFECTED
BY THE PANDEMIC.
BUT WE ALSO WANT TO LEAVE
SOMETHING LASTING AND SOMETHING
THAT CAN BE HANDED TO THE NEXT
CITY SO THAT WHEN THEY DO
THEY'RE GUARANTEED INCOME PILOT
THEIR STARTING A LITTLE BIT
FURTHER ALONG THAN WE ARE AND
WITH A LITTLE MORE CLARITY AND
HOPEFULLY THEY CAN PUSH THE
ENVELOPE ON THIS MOVEMENT A
LITTLE FURTHER.
SO WITH THAT BEING SAID, WE
HAVE SOME SPECIFIC QUESTION AND
I WILL LET DR. C FELD INTRODUCE
HERSELF AND AND WE'LL GO
THROUGH AND ANSWER SOME OF THE
SPECIFIC QUESTIONS THAT WE
RECEIVE FROM COUNCIL.
GOOD EVENING, COUNCIL MEMBERS
ON TAYLOR.
I'M KRISTEN SEATBELTS.
I AM A WARD ONE RESIDENT AND
I'M REALLY PLEASED THAT POVERTY
SOLUTIONS AS WELL AS THE SCHOOL
OF SOCIAL WORK AT U OF M HAS
THE OPPORTUNITY TO PARTNER WITH
THE CITY AS WELL AS OTHER OTHER
COMMUNITY AGENCIES IN THE CITY
ON THIS ENDEAVOR AND I WOULD
STRESS THAT THIS REALLY IS A
COLLABORATIVE EFFORT.
YOU KNOW THE FOLKS WHO KNOW
BEST ARE THE FOLKS WHO ARE ON
THE FRONT LINES AND IT'S REALLY
VERY IMPORTANT TO US THAT WE DO
THIS COLLABORATIVELY.
SO I REALLY WELCOME ALL OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT THAT FOLKS MIGHT
HAVE JUST WANT ME TO RUN.
LOOKS LIKE COUNCIL MEMBER GARZA
BECAUSE EDWIN, YOU HAD ASKED
ABOUT SOME OF THE PUBLIC
EDUCATION EFFORTS THAT WE WOULD
UNDERTAKE PARTICULARLY TO HELP
FOLKS UNDERSTAND WHAT MIGHT BE
COMPLICATED SCENARIOS.
WE IMAGINE A REALLY
MULTIPRONGED APPROACH TO
COMMUNITY OUTREACH AND
EDUCATION.
SO EVERYTHING FROM WEBSITES AND
WE HAVE A HISTORY OF DOING
WEBSITES TO EXPLAIN THINGS LIKE
THE STIMULUS PAYMENTS.
SO WE DID A LOT OF OUTREACH
AROUND GETTING PEOPLE TO GET
THEIR STIMULUS PAYMENTS AND
EXPLAIN THE PROCESS TO WALK
THEM THROUGH.
LIKEWISE WITH THE CHILD TAX
CREDIT WE RAN THE WEBSITE TO DO
THAT GOING TO COMMUNITY EVENTS
AND JUST SITTING DOWN AND
TALKING TO FOLKS ONE ON ONE OR
IN LARGER PRESENTATIONS WILL
WORK WITH VARIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
IN THE COMMUNITY TO HELP
DEVELOP MATERIALS THAT REALLY
ARE TAILORED TO THE POPULATIONS
THEY WORK WITH.
YOU KNOW WHETHER THAT IS IN
DIFFERENT LANGUAGES OR YOU
KNOW, JUST SORT OF PITCH TO
WHAT WHAT THE AGENCY ITSELF
DOES.
WE HAVE PROPOSED AT LEAST TWO
LARGER COMMUNITY FORUMS TO BE
HELD IN PLACES THAT ARE
ACCESSIBLE TO FOLKS PERHAPS
CHURCHES, PERHAPS COMMUNITIES
CENTERS.
WASHTENAW COMMUNITY COLLEGE IS
SOMETHING THAT PLACES VA AND
BUS ROUTES WHERE WE COULD JUST
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR FOLKS
TO JUST LEARN MORE ABOUT PILOT
AND HAVE THEIR QUESTIONS
ANSWERED ABOUT THIS.
THEY HAVE WILL ALSO BE USING
THE CITY'S FULL COMMUNICATIONS
CAPABILITY WITH THE PUBLIC.
IT ALSO ASKED ABOUT WHY
BUSINESS OWNERS ENTREPRENEURS
WERE CALLING LOW LOW LEVEL
ENTREPRENEUR IF JOHN ANSWERED A
LOT THAT I WOULD ALSO JUST ADD
TO THAT OUR FIRST STEP
IN THIS
PROCESS WAS TO REACH OUT TO
ALMOST 15, 14 OR 15 DIFFERENT
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS ANN
ARBOR AND YPSILANTI AND ASK
THEM IF YOU WERE RUNNING A
GUARANTEED INCOME PILOT, WHAT
SORT OF POPULATION MIGHT YOU
THINK COULD BENEFIT FROM THIS
AND THIS IS THE GROUP THAT
EMERGED FROM THOSE DISCUSSIONS.
IT WAS A REPEATED A REPEATED
THEME SO IN ADDITION TO WANTING
TO REALLY TAKE SERIOUSLY THE
PRESS FOR A NOVEL PROPOSAL,
THIS IS REALLY COMMUNITY DRIVEN
AS WELL.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAI, YOU HAD
ASKED ABOUT SERVICE SERVICING
FOLKS BEYOND THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY IN THE ADDENDUM TO
THE RFP IT SAID THAT WE COULD
INCLUDE PEOPLE IN THE LARGER
COMMUNITY SO WE RESPONDED
ACCORDINGLY ACCORDINGLY AND IN
PART BECAUSE WE THOUGHT ABOUT
WHAT ABOUT THE FOLKS WHO CAN'T
LIVE HERE BUT WHO WANT TO LIVE
HERE BECAUSE OF HOUSING COSTS
OR WHO USED TO LIVE HERE BUT
MOVED OUT AND DID IT.
BUT THAT IS THAT'S CERTAINLY
SOMETHING THAT I UNDERSTAND THE
CONCERN THIS A GRANT THAT WAS
MADE TO THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
BUT THAT WAS SORT OF OUR
RATIONALE IN THAT REGARD WE
RECOGNIZE TO IN YOUR IN REGARDS
TO YOUR QUESTION ABOUT WHO IS
OUR POPULATION, YOU KNOW, THERE
REALLY ISN'T A STANDARD
DEFINITION FOR A MICRO BUSINESS
OR A SMALL BUSINESS, A LOW
LEVEL ENTREPRENEUR.
AND SO ONE OF THE I THINK MAIN
ONE OF TWO MAIN AGENDA ITEMS
FOR OUR KICKOFF MEETING ONCE
THIS GETS LAUNCHED WHICH WILL
BE HELD IN COLLABORATION WITH
COMMUNITY PARTNERS WHO BOTH
WERE NAMED IN THE PROPOSAL BUT
ALSO OTHERS WHO WE'VE TALKED TO
SUBSEQUENTLY IS TO REALLY KIND
OF COME UP WITH A WORKING
DEFINITION FOR WHO WHO'S WHO
ARE THE FOLKS THAT WE WANT TO
TO REACH OUT TO.
BUT AGAIN, WE WANT TO DO THAT
IN COLLABORATION WITH WITH THE
FOLKS WHO KNOW THE BEST AND SO
THAT WE'RE NOT IMPOSING A
DEFINITION THAT'S NOT GOING TO
WORK.
YOU'D ALSO ASKED ABOUT THE THE
SAMPLE SIZE SO THE ADDENDUM TO
THE PROPOSAL TALKED ABOUT A
GROUP OF TWENTY FIVE
INDIVIDUALS.
THOSE ARE FOLKS WHO WILL DO
WE'LL DO QUALITATIVE INTERVIEWS
WITH THE SAMPLE ITSELF IS ONE
HUNDRED MEMBERS WHO GET THE
GUARANTEED INCOME PAYMENT, ONE
HUNDRED WHO SERVICE THE CONTROL
GROUP.
THE ADDENDUM WAS JUST TO ADD IN
AND AN ADDITIONAL ROUND AND I
ALSO I THANK YOU FOR POINTING
OUT AN ERROR IN OUR PROPOSAL
AROUND ISSUES OF ATTRITION AND
RETENTION.
WE SHOULD HAVE SAID THAT WE ARE
ASSUMING AN 80 PERCENT RETURN
RATE OF THOSE FOLKS NOT NOT AN
80 PERCENT ATTRITION RATE THAT
WOULD YES, THAT WOULD NOT WORK
.
SO SO THANK YOU FOR CALLING
CALLING OUR ATTENTION TO THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, YOU'D
ASKED ABOUT FRIENDS INDEED WHO
ARE INDEED BASED IN YPSILANTI.
THEY DO SERVE THE LARGER
WASHTENAW COUNTY.
WE DON'T ALSO VIEW THEM AS SORT
OF THE SOLE SOURCE
OF RECRUITMENT.
WE DON'T REALLY VIEW ANY
ORGANIZATION THAT WE WOULD WORK
WITH AS THE PLACE WHERE WE'RE
GOING TO RECRUIT ALL OF OUR
PARTICIPANTS.
WE PLAN TO CAST A WIDE NET AND
WE OURSELVES PLAN TO DO A LOT
OF JUST YOUR FEET ON THE GROUND
AND GOING TO EVENTS AND NOT
PLACING THE BURDEN ENTIRELY ON
THE NONPROFITS SECTOR TO DO THE
RECRUITING INTO THE PROGRAM.
WE SEE THEM AS BOTH BEING VERY
HELPFUL AND BEING ABLE TO HELP
US WITH THINGS LIKE PROVIDING
FEEDBACK ON OUR SURVEYS,
FEEDBACK ON REPORTS, THINGS
LIKE LIKE THIS YOU'D ALSO ASKED
ABOUT LIKE WELL WHY NOT JUST
GIVE A ONE TIME UP FRONT CASH
INFUSION?
WE DIDN'T WANT TO NECESSARILY
SAY BECAUSE THE SPIRIT
OF GUARANTEED INCOME REALLY IS
THERE ARE STRINGS ATTACHED TO
WHAT YOU DO WITH THE MONEY.
WE DIDN'T WANT TO SAY LIKE OH
HERE'S SOME MONEY TO INVEST IN
YOUR BUSINESS.
THAT'S A SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
MODEL.
SO WE'RE TALKING AMONG OUR TEAM
AND SOMETHING THAT WE'D WANT TO
TALK WITH THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
IS YOU KNOW, LIKE DO WE DO
MONTHLY PAYMENTS THAT ARE
OF THE SAME AMOUNT?
DO WE FRONT LOAD THE PAYMENTS
AND TAPER OFF THINGS LIKE THAT
?
BUT THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
DESIGN DECISIONS THAT WERE
WE'RE CONSIDERING RIGHT NOW AND
THEN COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON,
YOU'D ASKED A NUMBER
OF QUESTIONS.
WHAT ABOUT SORT OF HOW WE
DECIDED ABOUT A POTENTIAL
COLLABORATORS AND WHETHER WE
PUT OUT A CALL FOR SUPPORT?
WE LACK TIME TO DO THAT WITH
THE TURNAROUND TIME IN GETTING
THE PROPOSAL AND SO WE SORT
OF DID A SNOWBALL APPROACH TO
PEOPLE SUGGESTING US YOU SHOULD
TALK TO THIS GROUP OR YOU
SHOULD TALK TO THIS GROUP AS
WELL AS DRAWING UPON OUR OWN
COMMUNITY CONNECTIONS AND AGAIN
THE THE FOCUS OF OUR OUTREACH
EFFORT AT THAT POINT WAS REALLY
TO IDENTIFY A POPULATION TO
WORK WITH NOT NECESSARILY A
PARTNER.
SO ONCE WE SERVE LANDED ON A
POPULATION THEN WE SELECTED TO
NAME FRIENDS INDEED AS OUR
COMMUNITY PARTNER BECAUSE OF ,
YOU KNOW, JUST THEIR ALL THE
WORK THAT THEY DO WITH THEIR
CIRCLES PROGRAM IN THIS AREA.
YOU NAMED A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT
VERY IMPORTANT ORGANIZATIONS IN
THE COMMUNITY.
WE HAVE REACHED OUT OR WILL
REACH OUT TO MOST OF THEM THE
RFP AS WE READ IT SPECIFIED ONE
PARTNER TO BE NAMED BUT YEAH
I'VE BEEN IN PRETTY REGULAR
ALMOST WEEKLY COMMUNICATIONS
WITH THE ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY
FOUNDATION FOR EXAMPLE ABOUT
BRINGING THEM INTO THE MIX.
WE'VE WE'VE TALKED TO OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS AS WELL AND
INVISION CONTINUING TO DO THAT
.
YOU ALSO NOTED YOU WHEN WITH IN
THE ADDENDUM THERE WAS A SHIFT
IN THE BUDGET WHERE THE PAYMENT
AMOUNT WENT DOWN SLIGHTLY IN
CONSULTOR PERSON WITH THE TEAM
HERE AT THE CITY WE DECIDED TO
ADD AN ADDITIONAL ROUND
OF QUALITATIVE INTERVIEWS TO
HELP BETTER INFORM THE DESIGN
OF THE STUDY GOING FORWARD AND
BUT KEEPING THE TOTAL AMOUNT
OF MONEY THE SAME.
SO THE COST OF ADMINISTERING
THE PAYMENTS WE ARE GOING TO
CONTRACT WITH A THIRD PARTY TO
SEND OUT THE PAYMENTS THAT'S
THAT'S FIXED AND WE ARE PRETTY
BAREBONES IN TERMS OF OUR STAFF
EFFORT WITH AND THAT'S ALONG
WITH THE UNIVERSITY
CONTRIBUTING ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
AND SEVENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN
IN COSTS AS WELL.
SO WE WE TOOK THE PAYMENTS DOWN
AS YOU KNOW ABOUT ABOUT TWO
DOLLARS.
SO THAT'S THAT WAS DONE TO TO
REALLY BOLSTER THE RESEARCH.
>> WELL WE VERY MUCH WOULD LOVE
IT IF EVERY PERSON IN IN THE
PILOT PARTICIPATED IN EVERY
PHASE OF THE RESEARCH THAT IS
UP TO THE INDIVIDUAL.
WE WOULD NOT FORCE ANYBODY TO
COMPLETE A SURVEY OR AN
INTERVIEW AND THEIR PAYMENTS
ARE THEIR GUARANTEED INCOME
PAYMENTS AREN'T CONTINGENT UPON
THAT.
WE WOULD NOT JUST ENROLL
ANYBODY IF THEY MISSED A SURVEY
IF THAT'S THAT WOULD NOT BE
WITHIN THE SPIRIT OF THE
PROGRAM.
YOU'D ALSO ASKED ABOUT SORT
OF THE ROLE THAT CIRCLES AND
FRIENDS INDEED COULD PLAY IN
HELPING US TO LOCATE POTENTIAL
PARTICIPANTS.
GIVE THE CIRCLES PROGRAM REALLY
DOES HAVE AS AS ITS MODEL THE
GOAL OF HELPING FOLKS WHO ARE
LOWER INCOME START THEIR OWN
BUSINESSES AND THAT REALLY DOES
RESONATE WITH WITH WHAT WE'RE
PROPOSING.
THEY'VE BEEN RUNNING THEIR
CIRCLES PROGRAM THAT DOES THIS
FOR ABOUT FIVE YEARS AND
THEY'RE CURRENTLY IN THEIR
SIXTH COHORT .
SO THEY'RE DEFINITELY A GROUP
THAT WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO TAP
INTO THEIR NETWORK.
BUT WE ALSO ARE GOING TO
COLLABORATE WITH JUST A WIDE
VARIETY OF STAKEHOLDERS AND
SERVICE PROVIDERS WITHIN THE
COMMUNITY AND PARTICULARLY
GROUPS THAT WOULD HELP US
LOCATE, YOU KNOW, FOLKS WHO ARE
NOT NECESSARILY GOING TO BE
EASY FOR A U OF M RESEARCHER TO
REACH OUT TO.
I MEAN WE REALLY ARE COMMITTED
TO DEVELOPING RELATIONSHIPS
SORT OF TRUSTED MEMBERS OF OF
DIFFERENT COMMUNITIES IN ORDER
TO HELP HELP BRIDGE THAT SOME
OF THAT GAP AND REALLY TO HELP
THE SUCCESS OF OF THE PROJECT
AS A WHOLE AND THAT WOULD
INCLUDE ORGANIZATIONS THAT WORK
WITH FOLKS WHO HAVE JUSTICIA
INVOLVEMENT AND THAT'S I I
APPRECIATE THAT YOU RAISED THAT
THAT GROUP UP FOR THAT GROUP.
CERTAINLY THIS KIND
OF ENTREPRENEURIAL ACTIVITY IS
REALLY IMPORTANT IF THEY'RE
LUCKY
THERE FOLKS ARE LOCKED
OUT OF LABOR MARKET ACTIVITIES
OTHERWISE.
SO POVERTY SOLUTIONS IS JUST
STARTING A COLLABORATION
PROJECT WITH A BRIGHTER WAY.
TREVOR, MY COLLEAGUE IS ON THE
HOUSING SUBCOMMITTEE
OF WASHTENAW COUNTY REENTRY
STAKEHOLDERS INITIATIVE SO WE
HAVE SOME CONNECTIONS TO GET US
STARTED ON THE ON THE PILOT.
ANOTHER REALLY IMPORTANT PIECE
TO THIS PILOT IS MAKING SURE
THAT PEOPLE ARE NOT WORSE OFF
FOR PARTICIPATING IN IT,
MEANING THAT THEY DON'T LOSE
BENEFITS THAT THEY'RE
RECEIVING.
SO THE GOOD NEWS IS WE'VE BEEN
IN CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND HUMAN SERVICES AND WE'RE IN
THE PROCESS OF SUBMITTING AN
APPLICATION FOR A WAIVER TO
MAKE SURE THAT SNAP MEDICAID,
TANF AND A COUPLE OF OTHER
BENEFIT PROGRAMS THAT THE
GUARANTEED INCOME PAYMENT WON'T
COUNT TOWARD THEIR ELIGIBILITY
FOR THOSE PROGRAMS.
AND WE'RE STARTING
CONVERSATIONS TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT WOULD BE ALSO BE THE CASE
WITH ANY HOUSING ASSISTANCE
FOLKS FOLKS WOULD GET SO WE ARE
TRYING TO WE ARE TRYING TO MAKE
SURE THAT NO ONE IS IS WHERE
THANK YOU WORSE OFF FOR THAT.
WE WANT TO ALSO YOU KNOW, SO
WE'LL MAKE SURE THAT WE REALLY
HAVE CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THAT
BECAUSE THAT IS ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT ASPECTS
OF COMMUNICATION AROUND THE
GUARANTEED INCOME PROJECT.
IT ALSO COULD BE OF COURSE THAT
FOLKS MAY BE RELUCTANT TO COME
FORWARD NOT JUST BECAUSE
OF FEAR OF LOSING BENEFITS BUT
ALSO OF TAX IMPLICATIONS OR
OTHER FEARS ABOUT LIKE IS THIS
INFORMATION GOING TO GET GET
OUT TO THIRD PARTIES WHO WHO
COULD USE IT AGAINST SO GOING
THROUGH OUR INSTITUTIONAL
REVIEW BOARD PROCESS CERTAINLY
PROVIDES A LAYER OF PROTECTION
OF CONFIDENTIAL.
WE ALSO JUST STARTED TALKING
ABOUT I BELIEVE WE ARE GOING TO
GO FORWARD WITH SECURING A
CERTIFICATE OF CONFIDENTIALITY
FROM THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
THROUGH NIH AND THAT WILL
PROTECT THE PRIVACY OF FOLKS IN
THE RESEARCH STUDY.
IT PROHIBITS US FROM DISCLOSING
INFORMATION ABOUT THEM EXCEPT
UNDER A REALLY, REALLY LIMITED
SET OF CIRCUMSTANCES.
AND AGAIN WE WOULD TRY TO
CONVEY THAT TO PARTICIPANTS SO
THAT THEY KNOW WE TAKE THEIR
CONFIDENTIALITY REALLY, REALLY
SERIOUSLY.
FINALLY I WOULD JUST SAY, YOU
KNOW, THINKING ABOUT AGAIN
GETTING BACK TO SORT OF THE WHO
AND THE WHY OF THIS THIS
PROPOSAL THAT WE PUT TOGETHER
AGAIN WE DON'T WANT TO MANDATE
THAT ANYONE USE A GUARANTEED
INCOME PAYMENT FOR ANY
PARTICULAR PURPOSE IF THEY WANT
TO USE IT TOWARD THEIR
BUSINESS.
TERRIFIC.
IF NOT, THAT'S GREAT TOO.
THAT SAID, NEARLY ALL IF NOT
ALL OF THE OTHER GUARANTEED
INCOME PILOTS OPERATING
THROUGHOUT THE NATION ARE
FOCUSED ON A PARTICULAR
POPULATION.
SO I HAVE A LONG LIST THAT I
CAN SHARE IT WITH YOU BUT THAT
INCLUDES FATHERS IN PARENTING
PROGRAMS, FEMALE IDENTIFYING
CARE PROFESSIONALS, WORKING
ADULTS, PEOPLE ENROLLED IN A
COMMUNITY COLLEGE PROGRAM.
SO WE'RE SORT OF USING THE LOW
LEVEL ENTREPENEUR FRAMEWORK AS
A WAY TO KIND OF SELECT INTO
INCLUDING WHO'S THE GROUP THAT
WILL GET THE PAYMENT.
BUT THERE'S NO STIPULATION THAT
ANYONE HAS TO KEEP WORKING ON
THEIR SIDE BUSINESS TO ORDER IN
ORDER TO CONTINUE RECEIVING THE
PAYMENT AT ALL.
SO I SPED THROUGH THAT REALLY
QUICKLY.
SO I HOPE I ADDRESS SOME OF THE
QUESTIONS YOU HAVE BUT I'M
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANYTHING
FURTHER SEPER IF QUESTIONS
ARISE YOU'LL YOU'RE HERE FOR
US.
I AM HERE.
EXCELLENT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
IN THE COURSE OF YOUR COURSE
YOUR TIME SO THE DISCUSSION I
CAN'T REMEMBER WHAT I'D LIKE TO
THANK MR FOURNIER AND THE
RICHARD SCRIVEN POVERTY
SOLUTIONS FOR YOUR WILLINGNESS
TO ENGAGE CONVERSATION ON THIS
THE THOUGHTFULNESS OF THE
PROPOSAL TO CONTINUE
CONVERSATIONS SOME OF THEM
QUITE SHORT NOTICE WITH COUNCIL
MEMBERS HERE AND YOU KNOW I
REALLY I DO WANT TO HIGHLIGHT
THAT YOU'VE REALLY TAKEN TIME
TO ANSWER A LOT OF MY QUESTIONS
AND I APPRECIATE THE ANSWERS
YOU GAVE.
I THINK IN THE PORTION OF THE
SECOND PORTION OF MY QUESTION,
THE ONE WHERE I TALKED ABOUT
UPFRONT GRANTS VERSUS INCOME, I
THINK THAT I THINK THAT ROSE
FROM SORT OF A PERHAPS A
MISUNDERSTANDING OF THE SORT
OF GOALS OF THIS PROJECT THAT
WERE CLEARED UP FOR ME, YOU
KNOW, BY BY SOME SOME ANSWERS
THAT WERE GIVEN HERE AND THAT
QUESTION WAS BASICALLY ARE WE
LOOKING IF WE ARE LOOKING TO
PERHAPS STIMULATE SMALL
BUSINESS IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR MINORITY OWNED LOW INCOME
SMALL BUSINESSES I DIDN'T KNOW
IF THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING THAT
WE WOULD COMPARE PERHAPS TO THE
COUNTY'S SMALL BUSINESS GROWTH
ACTIVATOR WHICH IS PROVIDING
FIVE THOUSAND DOLLAR GRANTS TO
LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLDS WITH 80
PERCENT WHERE THE HOUSEHOLD
INCOME IS 80 PERCENT LESS THAN
80 PERCENT OF THE AREA MEDIAN
INCOME IN WASHINGTON COUNTY THE
BUSINESSES MUST OPERATE WITHIN
WASHOE COUNTY AND AND THE
BUSINESSES WOULD HAVE FEWER
THAN FIVE EMPLOYEES.
SOME OF THESE ARE DEFINITIONS
THE COUNTY DEFINITIONS THAT YOU
GET THAT AT DIFFERENT POINTS IN
YOUR PROPOSAL YOU'RE USING.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO TALK ABOUT
THE FACT THAT IT WAS FORNIER DC
A PHONIER WHO CLARIFIED THAT
THIS ISN'T REALLY A STUDY ABOUT
BUSINESSES OR BUSINESS GROWTH
OR IMPROVEMENT.
IT'S A STUDY ABOUT HEALTH
OUTCOMES THROUGH A LENS
OF PEOPLE WHO WE FEEL TO BE THE
MOST A VULNERABLE POPULATION
OF OUR POPULATION THAT WE CAN
TARGET.
CAN YOU TALK A LITTLE BIT, MR.
FOURNIER AND THE COLLEAGUES AT
POVERTY SOLUTIONS CAN YOU TALK
A LITTLE ABOUT WHY IT'S EASIER
AND CHEAPER TO GET THIS MONEY
OUT THROUGH THIS PILOT THAN IT
WOULD BE TO GET IT OUT THROUGH
A UNIVERSAL BASIC INCOME PILOT
WHERE WE HAVE TO WORK WITH A
PRIVATE PAYMENT PROVIDER OR
ANOTHER ENTITY TO JUDGE
ELIGIBILITY AND ALL SO A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT IDEAS THERE I'LL
TOUCH ON IS THAT WHEN WE
STARTED FORMULATING THIS THIS
PROGRAM THE FIRST THING WE DID
WE LOOKED AT THE KIND
OF PROGRAMS THAT OTHER CITIES
WERE WERE MOVING FORWARD A
THERE'S KIND OF A BUMPER CROP
OF COMPANIES AND NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS THAT HAVE COME
COME TO FRUITION NATIONALLY
THAT WILL ADMINISTER THESE
PROGRAMS AND ON YOUR BEHALF.
BUT MANY OF THEM ARE VERY
EXPENSIVE AND THEY'LL COME JUST
RIGHT UP FRONT.
THEY'LL TELL YOU WE TAKE TWENTY
OR TWENTY FIVE PERCENT UPFRONT
AS AN ADMINISTRATION FEE.
WE'LL ENROLL PEOPLE WILL CUT
CHECKS AND WHEN WE ASK FOLLOW
UP QUESTIONS LIKE WHAT KIND
OF A FOLLOW UP DO YOU DO TO SEE
IF THESE PROGRAMS WERE
BENEFICIAL AND HOW THE
PARTICIPANTS FELT ABOUT IT AND
WHETHER WE ACHIEVED OUTCOMES.
THEY SAY OH YEAH WE DO A
SURVEY, WE'LL EMAIL A SURVEY
AND THE SOCIAL SCIENTISTS ON
COUNCIL ARE ALL KIND
OF LAUGHING NOW BECAUSE THAT'S
NOT REALLY RESEARCH RIGHT NOW.
THEY MAY BE PRODUCING
INFORMATION THAT'S USEFUL AND
THAT'S INTERESTING FOR THEIR
FUNDERS OR FOR SOME OF THE
OTHER PARTICIPANTS.
BUT IT IS NOT THE TYPE
OF INFORMATION THAT IS PEER
REVIEWABLE AND VALUABLE AND
THAT CAN BE PASSED ON FROM ONE
PERSON TO THE NEXT IN A
RELIABLE WAY.
AND SO WHEN WE STARTED
INTERNALLY WE STARTED THINKING
ABOUT HOW DO WE MOVE FORWARD
FROM HERE?
THIS IS ANN ARBOR.
WE HAVE ONE OF THE FINEST
RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS ON THE
PLANET RIGHT HERE AND THE
POPULATION OF THE CITY THAT
CORRESPONDS WITH THAT.
WE HAVE A HIGHLY EDUCATED
COMMUNITY HERE, A LOT OF PHDS.
WHAT SHOULD WE DO?
AND WE THOUGHT YOU THE PEOPLE
WHO SHOULD BE ADMINISTERING
THIS OR PEOPLE WHO HAVE A
REALLY GOOD FINANCIAL
ADMINISTRATION FRAMEWORK WHO
KNOW HOW TO HANDLE FEDERAL
GRANT FUNDS AND WHO CAN CONDUCT
REALLY TOP NOTCH RESEARCH.
WE THOUGHT WE NEED A RESEARCH
PARTNER WHO CAN DO THE
ADMINISTRATION FOR US AND ALSO
GIVE US SOMETHING OF QUALITY AT
THE END AND THAT'S WHAT
STRUCTURED THE RFP AND WHAT WE
ENDED UP GETTING FROM OUR
FRIENDS AT POVERTY SOLUTIONS IN
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IS A
PROPOSAL THAT ON THE WHOLE IT'S
GOING TO COST US LOTS OF MONEY
AND ADMINISTRATION AND IT'S
GOING TO GIVE US SOMETHING
OF EXPONENTIALLY GREATER VALUE
AND SO THAT THAT REALLY KIND
OF LED TO THE DECISIONS TO KIND
OF STRUCTURE A REALLY HIGH
VALUE RESEARCH PROPOSAL AROUND
THIS THAT ANSWER YOUR QUESTION.
YES.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. FOURNIER.
SO IN YOUR CYCLE RIGHT.
>> CASIMIR IYER, THANK YOU.
I'M GOING TO BE REALLY BRIEF.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR ALL THE
THOUGHTFULNESS AND THE
THOROUGHNESS THAT YOU PUT INTO
THIS BOTH AND THREE STAFF SIDE
AND AND WITH OUR PARTNERS I'M
REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO
PASSING THIS TONIGHT AND
FINALLY GETTING MOVING ON THIS
REALLY EXCITING PROJECT
COUNTERMARCH HARRISON, I WANT
TO THANK STAFF.
>> I WANT TO DITTO COUNCIL
MEMBER IRES WORDS AND THANK YOU
FOR YOUR THOUGHTFULNESS AND
PUTTING THIS TOGETHER AND YOUR
WORK ON THIS.
I WANT TO KIND OF TALK A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THE QUALIFIERS.
I RECOGNIZE THAT PRIORITIZING
LOW INCOME MODERATE INCOME IS
THE FIRST QUALIFIER AND THEN I
BELIEVE
THE THE SECOND IS SELF
REPORTING OF A BUSINESS A SMALL
BUSINESS OR A SIDE HUSTLE OR A
GIG WORKER GIG TYPE WORKING.
CAN CAN I JUST I THE QUESTION I
HAD EARLIER FOR MR. FOURNIER I
GUESS OR MY CONCERN IS I GUESS
I'M WONDERING HOW ARE
INDIVIDUALS HOW ARE YOU GUYS
GOING TO ASK INDIVIDUALS TO
SELF REPORT AND THE REASON THE
FOLLOW UP TO THAT QUESTION IS
THAT WHEN YOU HAVE LOW INCOME
FOLKS THAT ARE VERY LOW INCOME
OR POVERTY STRICKEN INDIVIDUALS
THAT ARE ENGAGING IN SIDE
HUSTLE'S OR SMALL BUSINESS
BAKING CAKES AND SELLING THEM
OUT OF THEIR HOME, MANY
OF THESE INDIVIDUALS DO HAVE
BENEFITS.
AS YOU DISCUSSED EARLIER,
MEDICAID SNAP BENEFITS SECTION
EIGHT AND IF THERE'S A VERY LOW
THRESHOLD AS YOU KNOW TO WHEN
THAT INDIVIDUAL CAN LOSE THEIR
BENEFITS, I BELIEVE I BELIEVE
TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS EVEN AND
UP IN THE BANK ACCOUNT.
SO THESE INDIVIDUALS ARE
CUTTING HAIR OR DOING HAIR IN
THEIR BASEMENT.
YOU KNOW, THEY OFTEN ARE NOT
YOU KNOW, THEY'RE NOT REPORTING
THIS THIS INCOME.
SO I GUESS I'M REALLY JUST
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND HOW AN
INDIVIDUAL IS TO PROVE OR SELF
REPORT THAT THEY HAVE THIS
BUSINESS OR SIDE GIG OR DOOR
DASHING OR
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I THINK A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
THINGS.
I THINK FRAMING IS SUPER
IMPORTANT RIGHT.
SO INSTEAD OF SAYING LIKE DO
YOU DO THIS OTHER SIDE WE'VE
USED SURVEY QUESTIONS BEFORE
ABOUT DO YOU DO ANY OF THESE
THINGS?
YOU KNOW, DO YOU CUT HAIR, DO
BAKE CAKES AND WE WE WERE
TALKING IN OUR LAST TEAM
MEETING ABOUT LIKE LET'S SAY WE
COME UP WITH AS EXHAUSTIVE
OF THE LISTS AS POSSIBLE
OF ACTIVITIES THAT PEOPLE MIGHT
DO RATHER THAN SAYING LIKE OH
WHAT'S YOUR SIDE JOB BUT SO
LIKE YOU KNOW, ALLOWING PEOPLE
TO SORT OF CHECK OFF HERE ARE
SOME THINGS THAT THAT I'M DOING
.
YOU KNOW, WE ALSO I THINK WE
CAN'T STRESS ENOUGH TO
POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS, YOU
KNOW, THAT BENEFITS WON'T BE
AFFECTED.
YOU KNOW THAT THAT'S
COMMUNICATING THAT WILL BE WILL
BE REALLY KEY.
AND IF WE YOU KNOW, WITH THE
CERTIFICATE OF CONFIDENTIALITY
THAT PROTECTS US FROM US SAYING
LIKE NO, YOU NEED TO TELL US
WHO'S IN YOUR STUDY AND HOW
MUCH MONEY THEY ARE GETTING ON
THE SIDE THAT THAT'S THAT'S
WHAT THE CERTIFICATE DOES AND
YOU KNOW, ANOTHER DISCUSSION
WE'VE HAD TO INTERNALLY YOU
KNOW, GETTING SOME LEGAL
COUNSEL FROM SOME OF OUR
COLLEAGUES AT THE LAW SCHOOL
ABOUT WHAT ARE SOME OTHER WAYS
WE CAN WE CAN MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE AFFORDING FOLKS THE MOST
PROTECTION AS AS POSSIBLE
BECAUSE THE LAST THING WE WANT
TO DO IS IS HAVE PEOPLE BE
PENALIZED FOR ACTIVITIES
THEY'RE DOING BECAUSE THAT'S
YOU KNOW, THAT'S WHAT THEY NEED
TO DO TO KEEP THEIR THEIR
FAMILIES AFLOAT.
INTERPRETE WANT TO ADD ONTO
THAT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WE'RE WELL AWARE OF IS THAT
CREATING A LONG APPLICATION FOR
PEOPLE MAKES IT DIFFICULT FOR
THEM TO APPLY.
AND SO WE WANT TO REALLY THINK
ABOUT HOW TO MAKE AS EASY AS
POSSIBLE FOR THEM ONE OF THE
ONE OF THE KIND OF SECRET
SOURCES THAT WE HAVE IS THAT WE
CAN HIRE A LOT OF STUDENTS TO
HELP CHECK THINGS OUT.
SO ONE ONE IDEA THAT WE HAVE IS
KIND OF LEARNING ABOUT THINGS
FROM PEOPLE AND THEN TO YOUR
QUESTION OF PROOF LIKE WE COULD
HAVE STUDENTS KIND OF CHECK OUT
WELL, IS THIS SOMETHING THAT'S
HAPPENING?
I CAN I CAN I BUY A CAKE FROM
THIS PHONE NUMBER OR IS THERE A
FACEBOOK THAT DOES THIS AND SO
ALLOWING PEOPLE TO KIND OF LIKE
ONCE WE KNOW ABOUT SOMETHING
RIGHT.
WE'RE NOT PRYING INTO PEOPLE
BUT ONCE WE KNOW ABOUT
SOMETHING USING STUDENTS TO
KIND OF DO A LOT OF LEGWORK
AROUND AROUND NOT ASKING FOR
THAT ON AN APPLICATION BUT
INSTEAD FINDING OUT IN THE
ORDINARY IN THE ORDINARY PUBLIC
ACCOUNTS IN PERSON BEFORE I
JUST WANTED TO ADD ONE LAST
THING I THAT IS THAT THE THE
TYPE OF WORK YOU DO FOR THIS
KIND OF VERIFICATION IS VERY
LABOR INTENSIVE AND SO IT'S NOT
YOU'RE NOT ASKING WELL SHOW US
YOUR INCOME STATEMENTS.
SHOW US YOUR CHECKBOOK.
TELL SOMETHING THAT'S NOT WHAT
YOU DO RIGHT.
YOU DEVELOP VERY STRONG
NETWORKS WITH SERVICE
PROVIDERS, SOCIAL SERVICE
PROVIDERS, COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATION AND GET INTO THE
NEIGHBORHOODS, GET TO KNOW
PEOPLE.
YOU SPEND TIME RIGHT AT THESE
MEETINGS AND AT THESE PLACES
AND AT THESE HUBS AND YOU
ESSENTIALLY GAIN ENTRY TO HAVE
THOSE CONVERSATIONS AND REALLY
SPEND YOUR LABOR ON ENCOURAGING
PEOPLE TO APPLY WHO YOU KNOW
ARE ELIGIBLE AND MAKING SURE
THAT LIKE TREVOR SAID, USING
STUDENT LABOR OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT JUST TO DO YOUR OWN
INDEPENDENT CHECKING RATHER
THAN HERE'S A 30 PAGE
APPLICATION.
GIVE US ALL THIS PAPERWORK COME
TO THE OFFICE.
MAYBE SOMEBODY WILL HELP YOU.
IT'S NOT THAT TYPE OF A PROCESS
.
IT'S A VERY ENGAGED COMMUNITY
DRIVEN PROCESS WHERE YOU'RE ON
THE GROUND WITH PEOPLE MEMBERS
.
RESEARCH FOR THIS WORK IS SO
COMPELLING SINCE THIS IDEA WAS
INCLUDED AS A POTENTIAL PROJECT
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT FUNDING LAST
YEAR IT WAS CARRIED THROUGH BY
COMMUNITY SUPPORT IN ALL OF OUR
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS
NEARLY UNANIMOUSLY VOTED FOR BY
COUNCIL TO DEDICATE FUNDING
TOWARDS THIS AND SINCE IT'S
BEEN AN ONGOING QUESTION I HEAR
FROM COMMUNITY MEMBERS ASKING
FOR AN UPDATE.
THEY'VE BEEN HARASSING ME FOR A
PRETTY REPEATEDLY IN THE PAST
YEAR SAYING LIKE WHEN IS THE
RFP COMING OUT?
THE RFP HAS BEEN REALLY AMAZING
.
WE'RE TRYING TO DO SOMETHING
THAT WILL IMPACT COMMUNITY HAVE
HAVE A STRONG IMPACT IN
COMMUNITY AND CAN MAKE A
STATEMENT THAT WE'VE ACTUALLY
RESPONDED TO EMERGING NEEDS.
I HEAR FROM GREEN DISTRICT
COURT RESIDENTS I HEAR THIS
FROM THE BACK TO SCHOOL
CELEBRATION IN COMMUNITY CENTER
AND MORE RECENTLY I HEAR I HEAR
THIS QUESTION FROM FOLKS WHO
WERE RESPONDING TO THE EVICTION
CRISIS BACK IN APRIL WHEN WE
BUDGETED MONEY TO RESPOND TO
THAT.
WE KNOW THE PANDEMIC HAS
IMPACTED COMMUNITY MEMBERS
DIFFERENTLY ACROSS RACE AND
INCOME.
WE KNOW THESE INEQUITIES
EXISTED BEFORE THE PANDEMIC.
THERE IS A TWENTY EIGHTEEN
COUNTY HEALTH STUDY THAT
RESOLUTION ALSO HELPED PULL
TOGETHER WHERE DIFFERENCES AND
SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND PHYSICAL
ENVIRONMENTS ACROSS THE COUNTY
EXPLAIN THE DIFFERENCES IN
QUALITY OF LIFE AND HEALTH.
WE KNOW THAT BLACK BABIES IN
THE COUNTY ARE TWICE AS LIKELY
TO BE BORN AT LOW BIRTH WEIGHT
AS WHITE BABIES.
WE KNOW THAT SIX TIMES THERE
WERE SIX TIMES MORE LIKELY TO
GROW UP IN POVERTY.
HISPANIC CHILDREN ARE ALMOST
THREE TIMES MORE LIKELY TO GROW
UP IN POVERTY COMPARED TO WHITE
CHILDREN AND WE KNOW THERE'S A
NINE YEAR LIFE EXPECTANCY
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN AN HOUR
BEFORE FOR ZIP CODE COMPARED TO
ITS FOUR EIGHT ONE NINE EIGHT
ZIP CODE .
BUT I CAN'T HELP REFLECT ON A
COMMENT THAT I HEARD THROUGHOUT
THE PANDEMIC FROM A COMMUNITY
LEADER WHO WOULD SAY THAT SHE
LOST OVER 30 BLACK COMMUNITY
MEMBERS AND FAMILY MEMBERS
DURING THE PANDEMIC AND SHE
ASKED ME WHAT WHAT OUR ELECTED
IS GOING TO DO TO RESPOND TO
THAT.
HOW MANY FUNERALS DID YOU GO
TO?
DO YOU KNOW CHILDREN ARE
MISSING THEIR GRANDPARENTS OR
OTHER EXTENDED FAMILY MEMBERS
AND MY HOPE WAS THAT IN PUSHING
FOR THIS EFFORT IT WOULD SHOW
THAT WE HAVE THIS WILLINGNESS
TO NOT ONLY FIND AND PARTNER IN
THIS PROJECT TO ADDRESS HARMS
AND BRING SOME LEVEL BUT ALSO
BRING SOME LEVEL OF RECOVERY
AND HEALING.
THIS PROJECT GIVES US AN
OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY TO
ADDRESS ONGOING AND EMERGING
NEEDS WITH SCRUTINY AND
OVERSIGHT PRESENTED BY YOU
EVENTS IRB PROCESS SO AN
ALREADY VULNERABLE COMMITTEE
MEMBERS ARE NOT FURTHER HARMED
IN PARTICIPATING AS WE'RE
ENGAGING THIS COHORT OF
ENTREPRENEURIAL COMMUNITY
MEMBERS I KNOW THERE ARE BIPAC
MOTHERS AT YOU DOWNS FAMILY
HOUSING WHO RELIED ON BAKING TO
SUPPORT THEIR FAMILY THROUGHOUT
THE PANDEMIC, LITERALLY
SUSTAINING THEIR FAMILY AND
PROVIDING SUSTENANCE TO
EXTENDED COMMUNITY MEMBERS HERE
IN ANN ARBOR.
AND I'M THINKING OF COMMITTEE
MEMBERS WHO ARE FORCED TO
EXPLORE NEW AVENUES OF WORK
FROM HOME AND IT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE CONSIDERED AT THIS
TABLE WHEN WE REVISITED
ORDINANCES TO HELP SUPPORT HOME
BASE WORK HOME BASED BUSINESSES
CONSERVER THANK YOU PEROTTI
SOLUTIONS KOWSAR BREAKS.
THANK YOU AND I'D LIKE TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBERS FOR HER ONGOING
ADVOCACY FOR THIS PROGRAM.
THIS AND ALSO PROPERTY
SOLUTIONS FOR BEING HERE
TONIGHT.
I'M SORRY FOR ANSWERING A
NUMBER OF QUESTIONS THROUGHOUT
THE DAY.
IT'S A GREAT PROPOSAL.
I THINK IT VERY MUCH RESONATES
WITH THE NEEDS THAT I'VE HEARD
FROM RESIDENTS IN THE COMMUNITY
THROUGHOUT THE PANDEMIC AS
WELL.
I CAN THINK OF OF
BASICALLY
BECAUSE THEY COULDN'T MAKE IT
WITH THEIR SMALL BUSINESS HERE.
SO AND REGULARLY WE'RE HEARING
FROM RESIDENTS WHO ARE SPEAKING
OUT TO US AND AND AND TALKING
ABOUT THE CHALLENGE OF LIVING
IN THE COMMUNITY.
SO ONE THAT ONE OF THE ONLY
PIECES THAT KIND OF STUCK OUT
AT TO ME IN THE PROPOSAL THAT I
HAD A LITTLE CONCERN AROUND WAS
THAT SORT OF THE DISCUSSION ON
ELIGIBILITY WHILE YOU'RE KIND
OF DISCUSSING AND OTHER
COMMUNITY MEMBERS THE
ELIGIBILITY WAS DEFINED AS
SOMEBODY WHO COULD LIVE, WORK,
STUDY, WORKSHOP OR DO BUSINESS
IN ANN ARBOR.
AND SO AS YOU MENTIONED IN YOUR
PRESENTATION, I'D JUST LIKE TO
INTRODUCE A SMALL RESOLVED
CLAUSE
THAT WOULD SPECIFY THAT
THE GUARANTEED INCOME
RECIPIENTS ENROLLED IN THE
PROGRAM SHALL BE CITY
OF RESIDENCE.
>> IS THERE A SECOND VISCOUNTS
BRACKMAN AS THE MOMENT IS THAT
FINALLY THE BODY SUDDENLY
COUNTS ARE JUST TWO OF THE
FOUR.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
I THINK THAT WILL BE REASSURING
TO A LOT OF RESIDENTS IN THE
COMMUNITY WHO MIGHT BE
CONCERNED TO SEE US USING THIS
THIS PROGRAM TO WORRIED THAT IT
MIGHT THEY MIGHT NOT BE
ELIGIBLE MAKES CALORIMETER.
>> I JUST WANT VERY QUICKLY TO
THANK COUNCILMAN BIRDSONG FOR
REALLY PATHBREAKING WORK TO
START THIS INITIATIVE AND I
THIS WILL BE A PATHBREAKING
COLLABORATION.
I CAN'T THINK OF A MORE
FRUITFUL WAY FOR THE CITY AND
UM TO COLLABORATE.
I'M SITTING HERE AND ALL
LISTENING TO THIS CREATIVE
DISCUSSION OF METHODS AND
HEARING ASTUTE QUESTIONS FROM
COUNCIL COLLEAGUES ABOUT THE
ETHICAL DESIGN OF COMMUNITY
ENGAGED RESEARCH THIS IS
BEAUTIFUL AND THANK YOU COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON.
I WANT TO GIVE A THANKS TO MY
WARD TO COLLEAGUE COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG TO COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGGS WHO ARE FOR THE
AMENDMENT AND ALSO I JUST WANT
TO HIGHLIGHT THE THE POINTS
THAT WERE MADE ABOUT NETWORKS
FORMAL AND INFORMAL CONDUCT
WITH SMILE HEARING PROBABLY
SOLUTIONS, SPEAK ABOUT STUDENTS
WHO ARE ABLE TO YOU KNOW, JUST
DEDICATE SOME TIME TO REALLY
INVESTIGATING AND TO AND
TALKING ABOUT THE NONPROFITS
THAT ARE ABLE TO MINE THE
KNOWLEDGE WITHIN COMMUNITIES
AND TO FORM AND TO LOOK AT THE
NETWORKS THAT ARE ALREADY
EXISTING THAT WE CAN'T QUANTIFY
OR WE CAN'T ASK ON AN
APPLICATION WHO WHO DO YOU KNOW
AND WHO YOU'RE WORKING WITH.
BUT A NONPROFIT CAN GET A SENSE
THAT PRETTY WELL TO THAT AND
YOU KNOW, TALKING IN MY WORK
WITH THE COUNTY I AM KEENLY
AWARE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE
ABILITIES THAT THE COUNTY
OFFICE OF COMMUNITY ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT HAS AND THEN ALSO
KIND OF WHAT THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AS MR. FOURNIER ALLUDED
TO DOESN'T HAVE.
SO I'D LIKE TO OFFER AN
AMENDMENT TO A RESULT CLAUSE
RESOLVED THAT THIS IS ABOUT
ELIGIBILITY HERE SO RESOLVED
THE PRIORITY WILL BE GIVEN TO
RESIDENTS WHO RECEIVE ANY
EXISTING FORM OF PUBLIC
ASSISTANCE SUCH AS HOUSING
ASSISTANCE, INCLUDING THOSE ON
A WAITING LIST FOR HOUSING
ASSISTANCE, MEDICAID SNAP OR
WHO HAVE DEPENDENTS ELIGIBLE
FOR FREE OR REDUCED PRICE LUNCH
AND THEN OTHER RESIDENTS WHO
ENGAGE AND OTHER RESIDENTS WHO
ENGAGE IN ENTREPRENEURIAL WORK
WILL NEED TO DEMONSTRATE
ECONOMIC NEED OR HARDSHIP TO BE
ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE THE
SECOND CITY COUNCIL OVER BRIGS
IS THEIR IS THEIR DISCUSSION.
THAT'S A QUICK QUESTION.
IS THE I UNDERSTOOD THE
SPEAKERS ADDRESSED THE
ELIGIBILITY WITH GEOGRAPHIC
ELIGIBILITY QUESTION THEIR
DISCUSSION I HAVE NOT HEARD A
REFERENCE TO THE SUBSTANTIVE
QUESTION IS THIS CONSISTENT
WITH THE STUDY'S PARAMETERS AND
VIEWS?
THIS IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU.
SO JUST TO SPEAK ON THIS
DISCUSSION, IS THIS CURRENTLY
THE BODY INCHES FROM THE BODY?
>> I THINK BECAUSE I SORT
OF STEPPED INTO YOUR AMENDMENT
THERE IS ROOM ON THE AMENDMENTS
FOR YOU TO TO SPEAK ON THE
AMENDMENT.
SO MY APOLOGIES.
I GUESS IF IT'S FRIENDLY, YOU
KNOW, DISCUSSION IS PERHAPS BUT
I KNOW I JUST WANTED TO SPEAK
ON THE ELIGIBILITY POINT WHY
WE'RE USING FEDERAL ASSISTANCE
AND TO POINT ON TO TALK ABOUT
THE WAS REALLY THERE.
SO ALL THOSE PROGRAMS YOU
MENTIONED TO THE KING
OF DIFFERENT MEDICAID SNAP
DEPENDENTS WHO ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
FREE OR REDUCED PRICE LUNCH
THOSE REQUIREMENTS ARE ALL
BASICALLY APPROXIMATELY THE
SAME WHETHER YOU ARE BASICALLY
MEANING YOU ARE ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY PERCENT TO ONE HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY FIVE PERCENT IN THE
CASE OF REDUCED PRICE LUNCH
OF THE FEDERAL POVERTY LEVEL
WHICH IS A LITTLE BIT UNDER 60
PERCENT OF THE AREA MEDIAN
INCOME WHICH IS WHAT THE COUNTY
USES AND WHICH HAD BEEN
REFERENCED IN THIS REPORT THE
GOAL AND THE GOAL OF USING
THOSE THINGS WAS TO MAKE IT A
LITTLE EASIER TO ASCERTAIN WHO
MIGHT BE ELIGIBLE.
FOR EXAMPLE, I KNOW THAT A LOT
OF PEOPLE MIGHT NOT KNOW
EXACTLY IF THEY'VE APPLIED FOR
HAD THEY FILLED OUT EXACTLY THE
CORRECT APPLICATIONS BUT A LOT
OF PEOPLE KNOW IF THEIR
CHILDREN ARE ELIGIBLE FOR FREE
OR REDUCED PRICE LUNCH AND
THAT'S AN EASY TOUCH POINT.
THAT'S WHY WE WANTED TO USE
THAT ILLUSTRATIVE WORK AND WE
ALSO WANTED TO ADD ECONOMIC
NEED IN ECONOMIC NEED OR
HARDSHIP TO QUALIFY SITUATIONS
THAT MIGHT BE A LITTLE MORE
SPECIFIC THAT THAT REPRESENT
NEED IN A WAY THAT CAN'T BE
CAPTURED THROUGH INCOME
ELIGIBILITY.
YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT MEMBERS
CAN UNDERSTAND THEY'RE THAT'S
WHAT I GOT ON THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
.
>> THANKS, MIKE TAYLOR.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK
EVERYBODY INVOLVED FOR THAT
CONVERSATION.
I THOUGHT IT WAS REALLY, REALLY
THOUGHTFUL AND HELPS TO ANSWER
A LOT OF THE QUESTIONS THAT I
HAD KIND OF COMING INTO THIS
EVENING.
SO THANK YOU.
I ALSO WILL ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
SOME OF MY COLLEAGUES WILL KNOW
THAT AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS
PROCESS WHEN WE FIRST STARTED
TALKING ABOUT IT DURING DURING
OUR APPLICATION I WAS A BIT
OF A SKEPTIC WITH WITH A
GUARANTEED BASIC INCOME PILOT
BECAUSE I WASN'T SURE
NECESSARILY THE VALUE IN
CREATING A PILOT THAT WE DIDN'T
HAVE THE FUNDING OR PLAN TO
CONTINUE INTO THE FUTURE
DESPITE THE FACT THAT THAT I
KNOW THAT THE PROGRAM HAS VALUE
AND I THINK TONIGHT A LOT
OF THE QUESTIONS THAT I HAD
WERE ANSWERED.
THANK YOU FOR PUTTING TOGETHER
A THOUGHTFUL PROPOSAL THAT THAT
DEMONSTRATES TO ME THAT THERE
WILL BE VALUE IN THIS EVEN
THOUGH IT'S SUCH A LIMITED
GROUP OF PEOPLE AND AT TIME A
TIME CONSTRAINT OR TIME IT'S
TIME CONSTRAINTS BASED ON THE
FUNDING AVAILABLE.
SO I ALSO JUST WANT TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBERS ON FOR, YOU
KNOW, HER CONSISTENT ADVOCACY
FOR THIS.
I KNOW THAT IT WASN'T JUST HER
BUT ALSO A LOT OF WORK THAT
WENT IN FROM STAFF FROM MR.
FOURNIER AND OTHERS AND SO
THANKS EVERYBODY FOR YOUR WORK
ON PUTTING TOGETHER A PROPOSAL
THAT WE CAN ALL HOPEFULLY RALLY
BEHIND TONIGHT.
THANKS COUNCIL.
NO, SONGUN.
SO IF WE FOLLOW WHAT'S
HAPPENING NATIONALLY WITH STATE
BENEFITS BEING NEGOTIATED AWAY
,WE WE KNOW THERE ARE FOLKS
WHO ARE AT RISK WHO WILL HAVE
BE FACING FOOD INSECURITY WITH
ADDITIONAL WORK REQUIREMENTS
FOR FOLKS AGES 50 TO 54.
AND WHAT'S NICE ABOUT THIS
EFFORT IS THAT WE ARE
RESPONSIVE LOCALLY.
WE ARE ACCOUNTABLE LOCALLY.
WE'RE ADDRESSING LOCAL LOCAL
NEEDS, EMERGING NEEDS IN THE
WAKE OF THINGS ARE HAPPENING
FEDERALLY WHERE THE CHILD TAX
INCOME CREDIT WAS AN EXTENDED
NOW SNAP BENEFITS ARE BEING
QUESTIONED VERY VULNERABLE
FOLKS WHO ARE VERY, VERY LOW
INCOME.
AVALON HOUSING'S DIRECTOR HAD
NOTED EARLIER LAST YEAR THAT
THIS WOULD HELP FOLKS WHO ARE
MAKING LESS THAN THIRTEEN
THOUSAND A YEAR AND IN AVALON
HOUSING RIGHT.
THE CHALLENGES AND THE BARRIERS
PRESENTED TO ACCESSING PUBLIC
BENEFITS ARE ALREADY HIGH AND
THEY'RE WORSENED WHEN WE SEE
THINGS HAPPEN FEDERALLY EVEN
THOUGH SOME GROUPS WILL BE ABLE
TO MAINTAIN SNAP BENEFITS, IT'S
IT'S PUNITIVE.
WE ARE TOO PUNITIVE WHEN WE
TALK ABOUT POVERTY AND WHO
NEEDS THIS KIND OF ASSISTANCE
AND I'M REALLY RELIEVED AND
HEARTENED TO SEE THAT THIS WORK
CAN BE DONE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
YOU BECAUSE IT'S POVERTY
SOLUTION.
IT'S NOT ADMIRING OR OBSERVING
POVERTY, IT'S POVERTY
SOLUTIONS.
SO THANK YOU FOR SPEAKING TO
WHAT THESE BENEFITS ARE LIKE
NOW AND WHAT THEY SHOULD HAVE
BEEN.
BUT THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE
CAN DO FOR THE DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I LIKE TO EXPRESS
GRATITUDE TO COUNCIL MEMBERS
AND OTHER COUNCIL MEMBERS FOR
FOR TAKING THE LEAD ON THIS A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF GRATITUDE
TO STAFF AND AND THEIR FELLOW
TRAVELERS FOR PUTTING TOGETHER
A PROPOSAL THAT I THINK WE'LL
DO THAT WE'LL DO NO DOUBT IT
WILL HAVE TREMENDOUS AND
IMPORTANT EFFECT FOR FOLKS ON
THE GROUND IN THE HERE AND NOW
AND WILL ALSO LEAVE A LEGACY
OF INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTION
FOR OTHER JURISDICTIONS WHO
WILL LOOK TO TAKE OUR WORK AND
THEN BUILD UPON IT FROM THE
FUTURE.
I'M EXCITED THAT WE'RE GOING TO
BE MOVING THIS FORWARD FOR THE
DISCUSSION PAPER POST IS
APPROVED.
WE NOW HAVE THE FIRST REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES OF MAY
FIFTEEN TWENTY TWENTY THREE MAP
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
BEEN APPROVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECONDED COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
MINUTES LEVATOR POSED MINUTES
ARE APPROVED SEE WHAT AN
AUDIENCE AMEND SECTION TEN
SEVEN ONE SIX OF CHAPTER ONE
TWO SEVEN BICYCLISTS OF ARTICLE
THREE IMPOUNDING OF TITLE TEN
TRAFFIC OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
THAT ARE MOVE BY COUNCILOR AND
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS
A SESSION PLEASE OF C ONE
COUNCIL BRACKMAN THANK YOU.
SO EARLIER THIS YEAR COUNCILOR
DENHA I LEARNED FROM CITY
ATTORNEY JOHN RICER THAT OUR
CITY CODE REQUIRES THE
IMPOUNDED BICYCLE'S BE SOLD BY
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
THESE BIKES ACTUALLY GET PICKED
UP AND THEY'RE GROUPED TOGETHER
AND SOLD AND THAT'S FAR AWAY
FROM ANN ARBOR AND MICHIGAN.
SO ATTORNEY RIISER SUGGESTED
THAT BETTER OPTION WOULD BE TO
DONATE THE BIKE SO THAT
RESIDENTS WHO NEEDED THEM COULD
HAVE THEM AND WE QUICKLY AGREED
SO THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT WOULD
ALLOW THE IMPOUNDED VEHICLES TO
BE DONATED TO TAXES TO A TAX
EXEMPT ORGANIZATION.
COMMON CYCLE IS THE ONE THAT
COMES TO MIND EVEN THOUGH IT
COULD BE ANY AND THE ORDINANCE
THIS IS A COMMUNITY BASED
ORGANIZATION THAT'S DEDICATED
TO EMPOWERING AN ARBITRARY
BICYCLE'S THEY ALREADY HAVE A
PROGRAM IN PLACE TO REPAIR
DONATED GOODS AND DISTRIBUTE
THEM TO LOCAL RESIDENTS FOR USE
IN THE COMMUNITY.
THEY COLLABORATE ALREADY WITH
US ON A TWO ZERO PROGRAM AND
WORK WITH PARTNERS LIKE DELONAS
OZONE HOUSE
COMMUNITY ACTION
NETWORK TO GET BIKES TO PEOPLE
IN OUR COMMUNITY THAT NEED
THEM.
SO THANK YOU TO ATTORNEY RIISER
FOR SUGGESTING THIS CHANGE AND
MY CO-SPONSOR IS FOR THEIR
SUPPORT OF THIS ORDINANCE
REVISION FURTHER DISCUSSION TO
FURTHER POSED IT IS IS PRETTY
LIMITED.
>> WHEN I SAID C TWO I MET C
ONE.
WAS ANYONE CONFUSED BY THAT?
I AM ALONE IN MY CONFUSION.
WE WILL SEE TO AN AUDIENCE
APPEAL SECTION EIGHT FIVE TO
FIVE OF CHAPTER ONE ZERO FIVE
HOUSING CODE OF TITLE EIGHT
WILL THE REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THAT NO MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER QUINNELL
SECOND BY COUNCIL PRIOR
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C TO
COME.
I DIDN'T REALIZE NO ONE ELSE
WOULD SPEAK FOR THIS.
OK, THIS IS A VERY SIMPLE
REPEAL OF A PROVISION OF THE
BUILDING CODE THAT REQUIRES
LANDLORDS TO PROVIDE VOTER
REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
IT HAS GOTTEN SOME I BELIEVE
SOME LEGAL CHALLENGES ELSEWHERE
AND BESIDES IT'S JUST DONE
BETTER THROUGH MANY OTHER
AVENUES SO WE DON'T NEED THIS
FOR THE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED DENHA IS IN OPPOSITION
FOR THE PASSAGE HAVE 10 COUNCIL
MEMBERS, 11 COUNCIL MEMBERS IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA IN OPPOSITION SEE THREE
AN ORDINANCE TO ADD SECTION
NINE DO YOU MEAN ACQUISITION
OF TITLES FOR TITLE SEVEN
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY IN ANN
ARBOR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNETTO SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BORKMAN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C THREE THANK YOU.
SO THE WAY THIS CAME ABOUT IS
IN NOVEMBER A WOMAN CAME TO MY
FIRST CONSTITUENT CATHY ARE
ASKING ME IF I'D CONSIDER AN
ORDINANCE TO STOP PET SALES IN
STORES.
I DON'T KNOW A LOT ABOUT THIS
ISSUE BUT I LEARNED THROUGH MY
CONVERSATIONS WITH HER AND
THROUGH THE DIRECTOR OF THE
HUMANE SOCIETY THAT THERE'S NO
OVERSIGHT OF THE STATE OR
FEDERAL LEVEL.
I'M BREEDING CONDITIONS AS WE
HEARD FROM PUBLIC COMMENT
EARLIER, THIS MEANS THAT A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF PUPPIES,
KITTENS AND RABBITS THE PET
SHOPS ARE SOURCED FROM LARGE
SCALE COMMERCIAL BREEDING
FACILITIES ALSO KNOWN AS PUPPY
MILLS, KITTEN MILLS, RABBIT
MILLS ETC. THEY DON'T
ADEQUATELY PROVIDE FOR THE
HEALTH AND THE WELFARE
OF ANIMALS ACCORDING TO THE
HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED
STATES ESTIMATED AT TEN
THOUSAND PUPPY MILLS PRODUCE
MORE THAN TWO POINT FOUR
MILLION PUPPIES PER YEAR IN THE
UNITED STATES AND MOST PET
DOGS, CATS AND RABBITS COME
FROM THESE MILLS.
THE DOCUMENTED ABUSES INCLUDE
OVERBREEDING IN BREEDING
MINIMAL TO NONEXISTENT
VETERINARY CARE, LACK
OF ADEQUATE AND NUTRITIOUS
FOOD, WATER AND SHELTER, LACK
OF SOCIALIZATION, LACK
OF ADEQUATE SPACE AND LACK
OF ADEQUATE EXERCISE.
SO THIS ORDINANCE IF PASSED
WOULD MEAN THAT NO PET STORE
AND COMMERCIAL OFFER FOR SALE
OR DISPOSE OF DOGS, CATS,
FERRETS, RABBITS ON THE BIRDS
OR LARGE REPTILES.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO THAT THERE'S
CURRENTLY NO STORES SELLING
PETS IN ANN ARBOR SO THIS
ORDINANCE REALLY DOES IS ENSURE
THAT NO PET STORE IS EVER YOU
KNOW, EVER DOES THIS PRACTICE
IN THE FUTURE?
WE MODELED THIS ORDINANCE AND
WASHTENAW COUNTIES TWENTY
NINETEEN RESOLUTION THAT
PROVIDED MUNICIPALITIES
MARSHLACK ONLY WITH THE MODEL
PET ACQUISITION ORDINANCE
NOTHING ORDINANCE PREVENTS A
PET STORE FROM PROVIDING SPACE
OR CARE TO THE RESCUED ANIMALS
AND IT ALSO DOESN'T AFFECT A
CONSUMER'S ABILITY TO OBTAIN
ONE OF THESE PETS DIRECTLY FROM
A BREED SPECIFIC RESCUE
ORGANIZATION.
SO I JUST WANT TO THANK
ATTORNEY MATT THOMAS FOR HIS
HELP ON THIS ORDINANCE AS WELL
AS MY CO-SPONSORS ON THIS AND
THE PERSON WHO BROUGHT IT TO MY
ATTENTION.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THE
DISCUSSION FAVRE POSED.
IT IS APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION TO REAPPOINT
NONRESIDENT ELECTORS TO AN
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER THIS SECOND BY
CASPER.
>> HE HAD ONE DISCUSSION OF DC
ONE ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVE TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE DC TWO RESOLUTION
DIRECTING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO READ PRIORITIZED
REZONING OF THE PLYMOUTH AND
WASHTENAW QUARTERS TO TAKE ONE
MOVE BY CATHOLIC REDUCING THE
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE A DC TWO
COUNCIL BRITISH OK SO COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG IS GOING TO LEAD
OFF ON THIS BUT YOU CAN JUST
PICK IT UP BEFORE I LEAVE IT
OFF.
SO THIS IS AN INSTRUCTION THAT
CHANGE IS SOMETHING THAT
COUNCIL HAD ASKED FOR A FEW
MONTHS AGO WE HAD ASKED FOR
TWEAKING TO TAKE ONE BEFORE IT
CAME TO PLYMOUTH AND WATCHED
ENOUGH TONIGHT WE'VE HEARD THE
CONCERN THAT ONE SIZE ZONING
DOES NOT FIT ALL AND THAT WE
NEED TO MODIFY TACK ONE BEFORE
APPLYING IT FURTHER.
THE QUESTION BEFORE US IS NOT
DOES ONE SIZE FITS ALL OR NOT?
THE QUESTION IS IS TAKE ONE
BETTER THAN THE CURRENT ZONING
AND THE ANSWER IS YES.
CURRENT ZONING DATES BACK
DECADES.
IT PERMITS OUTMODED LAND USES
SUCH AS DEVELOPMENT THAT A
SINGLE STORY INCLUSIVE OF HIGH
RATIOS OF AUTOMOBILE PARKING
AND PHYSICALLY ARRANGED IN A
MANNER THAT DOES NOT PROMOTE
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
OPTIONS TO OR BETWEEN SITES.
THE TAXI ONE ZONING DISTRICT
RESTRICTS THE CREATION OR
EXPANSION OF THAT KIND
OF OUTMODED DEVELOPMENT WHICH
IS AT ODDS WITH THIS CITY'S
INITIATIVES TOWARDS REDUCING
CARBON EMISSIONS BY GETTING
PEOPLE OUT OF THEIR CARS AND
ONTO THEIR FEET OR THEIR
SCHOOLS OR INTO BUSSES.
THERE IS AN URGENCY TO PROTECT
BOTH OF THE CORRIDORS THAT I'VE
SPOKEN ABOUT FROM THE CREATION
OR EXPANSION OF OUTMODED
DEVELOPMENT.
BUT THAT DOES NOT MEAN THAT
THERE WILL BE HASTINESS IN
MOVING FORWARD WITH A REZONING
PROCESS.
THERE WILL BE PUBLIC PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT FOR ANY PROPOSAL
COMES TO A PLANNING COMMISSION.
THERE WILL BE PUBLIC HEARINGS
AT PLANNING COMMISSION AND
PUBLIC HEARINGS THAT COUNCIL
ALL OF THESE MEETINGS WILL BE
FULLY NOTICED TO NEIGHBORS AND
WILL BE PUBLICIZED TO THE
COMMUNITY AT LARGE.
THERE IS AN URGENCY TO REZONE
BUT THAT DOES NOT MEAN THAT
ONCE THE ZONING IS IN PLACE WE
WILL SEE AN IMMEDIATE RESULT.
ZONING IS A LONG GAME.
I'VE SAID THIS BEFORE I'M SURE
I'LL HAVE TO SAY IT AGAIN IN
DOING IT WE EXTEND AN
OPPORTUNITY WE DO NOT CAUSE A
CHANGE.
COUNCILOR RUSSELL OF THIS
RESOLUTION WAS REALLY MOTIVATED
BY THE COMMUNITY'S PROTEST
OF THE CREDIT UNION PROJECT ON
PLYMOUTH ROAD AND HOW THE
COMMITTEE HAD TO COME TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TIME AND
TIME AND TIME AGAIN TO SAY TO
REPEAT THE SAME MESSAGE OVER
AND OVER AGAIN WHICH IS WE DO
NOT WANT SINGLE USE SINGLE
STORY DEVELOPMENTS ON A TRANSIT
CORRIDOR THAT'S WITHIN WALKING
DISTANCE TO THE REASON WHY THE
FOLKS LIVE IN THAT AREA SO THEY
CAN WALK TO SCHOOL, ENJOY THE
POOL.
THAT'S RIGHT.
A PUBLIC A PUBLIC POOL THAT
THEY CAN GO SHOPPING, GO TO
WORK VERY EASILY.
IT'S OFF OF A BUS LINE.
I CAN'T HAVE CONSTITUENTS
PROTEST EVERY SINGLE PROJECT
THAT COMES ALONG THESE
CORRIDORS WHEN WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT REZONING FOR
QUITE SOME TIME AND IF THE THE
LAST MOST EXCITING INFILL
PROJECT IN PLYMOUTH ROAD WAS IN
2012 WITH ON IN PLYMOUTH ROAD
MALL I'M READING THIS A
NEWS ARTICLE FROM TWENTY TWELVE
AND HOW THAT ADDITION WAS IN
RESPONSE TO THE TREVER VILLAGE
WHICH WAS NEXT TO IT WHEN
BLOCKBUSTER CLOSED.
I NONE OF US ARE USING
BLOCKBUSTER THIS YEAR IF WE ARE
IF WE ARE GAUGING HOW QUICKLY
THE CITY MOVES BY THE LAST TIME
I'VE RENTED A VIDEO BLOCKBUSTER
I THINK WE ARE NOT RESPONDING
TO THE HOUSING CRISIS OR
RESPONDING TO THE COMMUNITY
DEMANDS ALONG ALONG THIS AREA
WHERE THERE'S POTENTIAL FOR
MORE EXCITING PROJECTS TO LIVE
ABOVE THE BANK TO LIVE ABOVE A
LOCAL RESTAURANT.
WE CURRENTLY DO NOT HAVE THESE
OPTIONS.
WE'RE NOT ENCOURAGING THESE
OPTIONS AND WE'RE UNFORTUNATELY
TOO AFRAID TO GET A LITTLE BIT
CLOSER TO TALKING ABOUT THESE
OPTIONS.
APARTMENT BUILDINGS WILL NOT
SPRING UP OVERNIGHT AS MUCH THE
DEMAND MIGHT BE FOR IT BECAUSE
LATER ON WE'RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT HOW IT'S DIFFICULT TO
FINANCE A BUILDING APARTMENT
APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
>> BUT WE NEED TO HAVE BETTER
CONVERSATIONS AND FIGHTING
EVERY SINGLE NOT GREAT PROJECT
THAT COMES BEFORE A PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> WE EXPECT MORE WE EXPECT A
BETTER COUNCIL MEMBER BECAUSE
THE OTHER ONE THANK YOU.
I WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR TO THIS.
I THINK IT'S NEEDED IT'S
NECESSARY POLICE HALF
OF WASHTENAW IS IN WARD THREE
AND ALIGNMENT WITH OUR CLIMATE
ACTION AND OUR TRANSPORT GOALS
FOR THE CITY AND WE'LL JUST
OVERALL MAKE THE AREA MORE
ACCESSIBLE.
SO THANK YOU ALL THE WORK
COUNCILOR DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I'LL KEEP THIS RELATIVELY BRIEF
BECAUSE MY COLLEAGUES HAVE
ALREADY SPOKEN AT LENGTH ABOUT
ALL OF THE BENEFITS OF THIS.
I WAS JUST GLAD AS ANOTHER
OF THE WARD THREE COLLEAGUES
WHO HAS PART OF WASHTENAW TO
PARTNER WITH MY MY COLLEAGUES
FROM WARD TWO AND AND COUNCIL
MEMBER FROM THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ON THIS.
I DO HEAR FROM RESIDENTS ABOUT
CONCERNS THAT WE'RE GOING TAKE.
WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE GETTING
THESE SINGLE SINGLE SINGLE
STOREY BUILDINGS IN ALONG SOME
OF OUR MAJOR TRANSIT CORRIDORS.
I HEAR CONCERNS ABOUT THE VAST
POTHOLE RIDDEN PARKING LOTS
THAT ARE LINING SOME OF OUR
MOST TRANSIT FRIENDLY AREAS AND
AND I WOULD ALSO JUST COMMENT
THAT I THINK TO THOSE IN THE
COMMUNITY WHO ARE STILL
CONCERNED ABOUT THE HASTINESS
WE HEARD ABOUT THE PROCESS THAT
WILL COME ALONG WITH THIS.
BUT BUT THIS IS SOMETHING WE'VE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT NOW FOR
YEARS.
THIS IS SOMETHING WE'VE BEEN
WORKING ON FOR YEARS.
I THINK EVERY MEMBER SITTING AT
THIS TABLE CAMPAIGNED ON THIS
VERY CONCEPT.
SO THIS ISN'T SOMETHING THAT
THE
COMMUNITY HASN'T ENGAGED.
IN FACT, WE'RE ACTUALLY
DELIVERING ON CAMPAIGN PROMISES
THAT WE MADE TO THE COMMUNITY.
WE WERE PRETTY TRANSPARENT
ABOUT OUR SUPPORT FOR TRANSIT
ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT AND AND
THIS IS A NEXT STEP IN THAT.
AND SO I LOOK FORWARD TO
CONTINUING THIS WORK AND MAKING
SURE THAT WE'RE DEVELOPING
WE'RE BUILDING THE COMMUNITY
THAT THAT OUR RESIDENTS EXPECT
OF US.
THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON.
SO I WANT TO TALK FIRST ON THE
ENGAGEMENT PIECE THAT SHOWS SO
MUCH THAT WE HEARD A BIT ABOUT.
YOU KNOW, PRECEDENT FROM OTHER
AREAS ZONE ONE NOTABLY THE
SOCCER STADIUM AND THE
BRIARWOOD AREA PRESIDENT SHOWS
US THAT PARSHALL'S IN THOSE
PREVIOUS AREAS WERE CONSIDERED
CONSIDERED SPECIFIC CASTLES
DEBATED WELL WHILE THE TESI ONE
PLIMOTH AREA AND THE DC ONE
WALSHAW AREA THERE THERE'S BEEN
SUGGESTIONS OF THOSE MAPS IN
STAFF ENGAGEMENT PRESENTATIONS,
COMMUNITY STAFF, COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT PRESENTATIONS THAT
OCCURRED IN THE PAST COUPLE
OF YEARS.
THOSE BALLOTS HAVE NOT BEEN
FINALIZED.
I MYSELF MY FELLOW
REPRESENTATIVES, WE WILL BE
HEARING FROM CONSTITUENTS ABOUT
SPECIFIC PROPOSALS, ABOUT
SPECIFIC FEATURES.
I'VE ALREADY HEARD THE
DIFFERENT DIFFERENT
CONSERVATION EASEMENTS WITHIN
THE AREA, DIFFERENT MILLER
CREEK AREA.
BUT THE MAJOR POINT HERE I
THINK FOR ME IS PLIMOTH IS A
SUCCESSFUL CORRIDOR.
IT'S A LOT OF WHAT WE LIKE
OF WHAT WE WANT TO SEE IN DC
ONE IT'S ALREADY OCCURRING THE
CORNER OF PLYMOUTH AND GREEN
THE SWEETWATERS WHERE I HOSTED
MY COFFEE OURS.
IT'S A SUCCESSFUL EXAMPLE
OF MIXED USE TWO FLOORS
OF HOUSING OF BUSINESSES, LOCAL
AND NATIONAL.
FURTHER DOWN THE CORRIDOR WE'VE
SEEN SUCCESSFUL INFILL CREDIT
UNIONS MIXED WITH ALL OUR
CREDIT UNIONS MIXED WITH YOGA
STUDIOS, ALL SORTS OF THINGS
BUILT INTO AN EXISTING PARKING
LOT OF A COMPLEX FILLING IN
PARKING USING IT FOR MORE
CREATIVE AND COMMUNITY AND USES
FOR COMMUNITY BENEFIT.
SO I'M CONFIDENT THAT THE
COMMERCIAL SUCCESS OF THIS AREA
JUST MEANS THAT THIS WILL BE A
LONGER TERM PROCESS THAT IS
KIND OF RESPECT WHAT'S WORKING
HERE BECAUSE SO MUCH IS AND
THEN OVER THE LONG TERM JUST
CONTINUING SUCCESS AND ALSO IN
WASHOE SIMILARLY WE'VE SEEN
STRIP MALL DEVELOPMENT GO IN.
WE'VE SEEN DRYFOOS GO IN THERE
AND WE KNOW THAT OTHER THINGS
WORK IN THE COMMUNITY HAS TOLD
US TIME AND TIME AGAIN BETTER
WE CAN DO BETTER AND WE CAN WE
CAN MEET OUR HOUSING AND OUR
COMMUNITY GOALS.
>> THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION,
COUNCILOR.
>> I GUESS I'LL JUST ADD TO THE
CHOIR.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR BRINGING
THIS FORWARD.
I WAS ONE OF THE CO-SPONSORS
OF THE RESOLUTION THAT DIRECTED
PLANNING COMMISSION TO DEVELOP
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE
SETBACKS ON STADIUM DUE TO THE
CONSTRAINED WET'S THAT MAKE IT
KIND OF INADEQUATE FOR
FACILITATING NON MOTORIZED
TRANSIT.
I STILL SUPPORT US DOING THAT
WORK BUT IT'S ALSO A CASE THAT
EVERY TIME WE SEE A PROPOSAL
FOR A SINGLE STORY
NONRESIDENTIAL AUTO CENTRIC
DEVELOPMENT IN THESE AREAS THAT
REMAIN TO BE THE DC ONE, WE'RE
LOSING OPPORTUNITIES TO BUILD
TRANSIT SUPPORTIVE HOUSING AND
ALSO IT MAKES ME WANT TO STAB
MY EYES OUT.
SO LET'S GO I LOOK FORWARD TO
SUPPORTING THE STATE COUNCILOR
BRITISH BEAT THAT.
YEAH.
AND NOT PLAYING AT THIS TONIGHT
THE I WANTED TO SAY, COUNCILMAN
BRACKMAN, THAT YOU CAN HAVE
YOUR CAKE AND EAT IT TOO.
I FORGOT TO MENTION THAT STAFF
HAS BROUGHT CHANGES FOR RIGHT
AWAY AND SETBACKS TO PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THEY'VE BEEN
ROBUSTLY DISCUSSED AND I
ACTUALLY EXPECT THOSE TO BE
IMPLEMENTED AS WE ACHIEVE THESE
RESULTS AND SO THEY WILL BE
INCORPORATED INTO THEM BECAUSE
THEY'RE A STRONG ADVOCACY ON
STAFF FROM DEPUTY PLANNING
MANAGER KELLY THAT WE CONSIDER
ROOM FOR PEDESTRIAN AND LIKE I
WAS GOING TO SAY AMENITIES BUT
THAT ISN'T THE RIGHT THING.
THE INFRASTRUCTURE ENOUGH ROOM
TO BE ABLE TO PUT SHELTERS AND
BIKE LANES AND HAVE A SIDEWALK
WHERE YOU DON'T FEEL LIKE
SOMETHING'S GOING TO CRASH INTO
HOWEVER MANY WHEELS IT HAS.
SO ACTUALLY THAT'S GOING TO BE
TWEAKED.
>> COUNCILOR ROXANN, SORRY
SINCE I KNOW THAT SO MANY
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WATCH THIS
PRETTY INTENTLY, I JUST WANTED
TO CORRECT A MISSTATEMENT I
TOTALLY REFERRED TO THE AREA AS
THE AREA AROUND BRIGHTWOOD.
IT'S JUST IT'S THE STATE THE
EISENHOWER AREA AS BURWOOD MALL
WAS EXCLUDED FROM THAT.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
.
I'M EXCITED THAT THIS IS MOVING
FORWARD.
I'D LIKE TO THANK PARTICULARLY
COUNCILOR DISH FOR HER WORK ON
PLANNING COMMISSION UP AND DOWN
THE LINE IT IS YOU WE ALL LEAVE
HERE AT WHATEVER TIME WE LEAVE
HERE ON MONDAY NIGHTS AND
COUNTERMELODIES ROLLS BACK IN
AND DOES IT AGAIN ON TUESDAY.
IT IS A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
OF WORK AND IS EXCELLENT WORK
AND I'M JUST GRATEFUL FOR WHAT
SHE DOES AND WITH WHAT OUR
OTHER PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
DO.
WE ASK THEM TO DO A LOT AND WE
WE RELY UPON THEM FOR THEIR
EXPERTIZE AND THEIR INITIATIVE
AND IT IS OF GREAT BENEFIT TO
THE COMMUNITY WHEN THEY WORK
TOGETHER WITH US AND HELP MOVE
US ALL FORWARD.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
ON PAPER POES IS APPROVED.
>> LET US TAKE A SHORT BREAK.
IT IS NINE TWENTY SIX.
LET US RECONVENE AT NINE THIRTY
FIVE
.
>> WE ARE BACK AFTER NINE
THIRTY SIX.
WE'RE BACK AFTER A SHORT BREAK.
DC THREE RESOLUTION TO DISSOLVE
THE COUNCIL THE COMMONS MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL SELECTED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION PLEASE.
A DC THREE COUNCIL MCCONNELL
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO JUST CALL FIRST
OF ALL MY GRATITUDE AND THANKS
TO THE COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS
COLLEAGUES I HAD ACTUALLY
REQUESTED TO BE APPOINTED
BEFORE I WAS ELECTED TO COUNCIL
TO COME IN SO I HAVE BEEN PART
OF THAT GROUP SINCE ITS
INCEPTION BASICALLY WITH THIS
RESOLUTION STATES IS THAT THE
COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS GROUP
HAS COMPLETED THEIR RESEARCH
INTO OTHER COMMUNITIES CENTRAL
PLAZAS ENGAGED WITH BUSINESSES,
RESIDENTS AND STAKEHOLDERS
CONSIDERED TO BE CENTER OF THE
CITY BLOCK PARTNERS TO RECEIVE
FEEDBACK AND DIRECTION AS
COORDINATED WITH THE PARKS
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
ACTIVITIES IDEAS AND PROVIDED
AMPLE INFORMATION ON WHICH THE
EVALUATION OF THE FEASIBILITY
AND VITALITY OF A CENTRAL PLAZA
AND THE CENTER OF THE CITY SITE
CAN BE CONDUCTED BY CITY STAFF
AND CITY COUNCIL.
IN SHORT, A LOT OF HARD WORK
HAS GONE INTO GETTING AN
ANALYSIS DONE AS TO WHAT IS
POSSIBLE AND WHAT OTHER
COMMUNITIES DO WITH THEIR
CENTER OF THE CITY INITIATIVES
IN TERMS OF A COMMON PLACE FOR
FOLKS TO GATHER IN THE CENTER
OF THEIR TOWNS AND A LOT
OF WORK HAS GONE INTO THIS.
SO I KNOW THAT IT'S EASY TO SAY
THERE ISN'T A LOT TO SHOW FOR
IT AND I WOULD DISAGREE THAT A
LOT OF RESEARCH HAS BEEN DONE.
I KNOW THAT PEOPLE ACTUALLY
VISITED OTHER COMMUNITIES WENT
AND TALKED TO COUNCILOR COMMONS
MEMBERS, DID GO TO OTHER
COMMUNITIES, DID SO MUCH WORK
ON THIS AND IT IS TO THE POINT
NOW WHERE THE CONVERSATION
AROUND THOSE TABLES HAVE
DEVOLVED TO A POINT OF LACK
OF UTILITY.
>> SO IT IS APPROPRIATE TO
DISBAND THAT GROUP AND TO REFER
THESE ACTIVITIES AS INDICATED
TO THE PARKS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
WHICH IS IT IS PART OF A PARK.
IT IS DESIGNATED AS A PARK AND
THAT IS THE APPROPRIATE USE FOR
THAT COMMITTEE'S TIME.
SO AGAIN, I WANT TO THANK MY
COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS
COLLEAGUES FOR THE WORK THAT
THEY HAD DONE AND ALSO WANT TO
RECOGNIZE AS WOULD AS WAS
MENTIONED EARLIER THAT THE
COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS ITSELF
DID VOTE TO DISSOLVE ITSELF IN
RECOGNITION OF CREATING A ROAD
MAP THAT THE CITY COULD THEN
TAKE AND CONSIDER FOR FUTURE
IMPLEMENTATION AND USE.
SO JUST IN CLOSING, IF YOU WANT
TO USE THAT SPACE, NOTHING
RIGHT NOW PROHIBITS YOU FROM
USING THAT SPACE ALTHOUGH THERE
ISN'T BUILT INFRASTRUCTURE
THERE RIGHT NOW YOU CAN USE
THAT PARK.
YOU JUST HAVE TO GET A PERMIT
SAME AS ANY OTHER PARK IN YOUR
WELCOME TO ACTIVATE IT FOR
SPACES.
SO I WILL BE SUPPORTING THIS
TONIGHT FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL BREAKS.
YES.
I JUST WANT TO ECHO THANKS TO
THE COMMISSION MEMBERS WHO
VOLUNTEERED AND SPENT A LOT
OF TIME INCLUDING COUNCIL
MEMBER KERNELL WHO STARTED AS
RESIDENT AND THEN VOLUNTEERED
AGAIN AS A COUNCIL MEMBER.
SO THANKS FOR JOINING ME.
I WAS I'VE BEEN ON IT SINCE THE
BEGINNING AND THANKS TO COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH WHO ALSO SERVED FOR
A TIME ON THAT COMMISSION AS
WELL AS COUNCIL MEMBER CARNEL
MENTIONED THIS EXCEPT FOR THE
UNSENT THAT WE HEARD THIS
EVENING, IT WAS UNANIMOUS FROM
THE COMMISSION MEMBERS THAT IT
WAS IT WAS TIME TO DISSOLVE THE
COMMISSION THAT WE COMMISSION
HAD KIND OF SET OUT WHAT TO DO
,WHAT WE ASKED IT TO DO IN
TERMS OF PROVIDING ADVICE AND
YOU'LL SEE ON THE AGENDA
TONIGHT E FOUR AND FIVE ARE
SOME RECOMMENDATIONS THAT THE
COMMISSION HAS SET FORWARD FOR
US TO TO CONSIDER.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN TO
COMMISSION MEMBERS AND TO CHAIR
MP WHO SPENT A LOT OF TIME AS
WELL LEAVING THE GROUP OVER THE
LAST COUPLE OF YEARS FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
>> I'M GLAD THAT THIS IS GOING
TO BE MOVING FORWARD.
I THINK IT'S THE RIGHT AND
PROPER TIME FOR IT.
I DO JUST WANT TO MAKE ONE
QUICK STATEMENT WITH RESPECT TO
WHAT THE LAND HOW THE LAND IS
DESIGNATED INTERNALLY WITHIN
THE CITY, THE PARK OF THE AREA
IS ONLY LIBERTY PLAZA.
LIBERTY PLAZA IS A PARK.
THE BALANCE OF THE PROPERTY IS
NOT PARK.
AND SO I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
THAT WE WE NOTE THAT EVEN AS
WE'RE REQUESTING THE PARK
ADVISORY COMMISSION TO ENGAGE
IT, THE BALANCE AND THE BULK
OF THE PROPERTY IS NOT PARK
LAND THEREFORE NOT SUBJECT TO
ANY OF OUR STRICTURES AND AN
OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITIES WITH
RESPECT TO PARK THE DESIGNATED
PARKLAND.
>> THE ONLY PARKLAND IN THAT
AREA IS LIBERTY PLAZA.
THE DISCUSSION ON FABER POSED
YET IS APPROVED DC FOR
RESOLUTION TO REVISE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE COUNCIL CALENDAR
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
SECOND BY COUNCILOR DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC FORM WELFARE POSED
IT IS APPROVED DC FIVE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
AMENDMENTS TO THE COUNCIL RULES
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
THE COUNCIL REDISH CAN MOVE
FASTER DISCUSSION NAZARIA OK
THANK YOU.
SO I JUST WANT TO GIVE A LITTLE
BIT OF CONTEXT FOR THIS CHANGE
THAT WE'RE MAKING HERE WHEN
FOLKS MAY REMEMBER THAT WE MADE
SOME CHANGES RECENTLY REGARDING
PUBLIC COMMENT IN ORDER TO
INCREASE THE OPPORTUNITY THAT
PEOPLE CAN HAVE TO APPROACH
COUNCIL
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT AT
THE BEGINNING OF THE MEETING,
ESPECIALLY IF YOU FOLKS HAVE
SOMETHING THAT THEY WANT TO
ADDRESS.
IT'S NOT ON THE AGENDA.
SO PREVIOUSLY WE HAVE TO WAIT
UNTIL THE END OF THE MEETING IN
ORDER TO TO DO THAT AND GIVEN
THE LATENESS OF THE HOUR,
OFTENTIMES THAT'S JUST NOT VERY
ACCESSIBLE FOR MOST PEOPLE WE
LEARNED WE'VE HAD THIS NEW
SYSTEM IN PLACE FOR A LITTLE
WHILE HERE AND HAVE LEARNED
KIND OF HOW IT WORKS AND FOLKS
HAVE GOTTEN USED TO IT.
BUT WE DO WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE FOLKS WHO ARE
ADDRESSING SOMETHING ON THE
AGENDA GET AN OPPORTUNITY TO DO
SO WITHOUT BEING BUMPED TO THE
THE EXTENDED PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD AT THE END IF WE HAVE A
LOT OF SPEAKERS AND SO THIS IS
JUST A MINOR CHANGE THAT
PRIORITY IS THOSE SPEAKING
CATEGORIES SO THAT IF YOU ARE
SPEAKING TO AN ITEM THAT'S ON
THE AGENDA YOU DO GET
PRIORITIZED IN FRONT OF FOLKS
WHO HAVE A GENERAL COMMENT TO
MAKE AND THAT'S THAT SUMS IT UP
FOR THE DISCUSSION.
COUNCILOR.
NOPE, I WAS MAYOR N FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POST
APPROVED DC SIX RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING THE CITY ATTORNEY
TO INITIATE OR PURSUE
LITIGATION OR OTHER LEGAL
ACTION ON BEHALF OF THE CITY.
THEN ARBER MOVE BY COUNCILOR
REDISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CASSIE EDWARDS
DISCUSSION OF DC SIX COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON.
I'M GOING TO I'M GOING I'M
GOING TO START TO LISTEN PLEASE
TO THE ATTORNEY KOWA OF IN
ANYTHING THAT I'VE GOTTEN WRONG
OR ADDED ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AS NECESSARY.
SO THIS CAME FROM CONVERSATIONS
WE HAD AT THE IN THE COUNCIL
ADMINISTRATION COMMIT COMMITTEE
AND WE ATTORNEY KOWA IDENTIFY
THAT THERE WERE CERTAIN PARTS
OF THE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY
ATTORNEY TO INITIATE AND PURSUE
LITIGATION THAT HADN'T QUITE
QUICKLY BEEN DEFINED.
ONE OF THEM ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT ONES I THINK WAS THAT
HOW SOMETIMES AMICUS BRIEFS
COME BEFORE US VERY QUICKLY AND
TO GET KIND OF COUNSEL MEMBER
SIGN-OFF OVER EMAIL FOR MAYBE
TWO DAYS IF WE DEADLINE BEFORE
IN BETWEEN MEETINGS, YOU KNOW,
OVEI CONSTRAINS OUR ABILITY TO
DO THAT.
SO WE SAID LIKE WHAT WOULD WHAT
WOULD GUIDE THAT OR HOW CAN WE
KIND OF CLARIFY WHAT DOES THE
CITY ATTORNEY, WHOEVER THEY MAY
BE IN THE FUTURE FOR NOW, WHAT
ARE THEY ALLOWED TO DO ON THEIR
OWN?
WHAT AND WHAT WOULD WE SORT
OF AND WHAT ARE OUR ABILITIES
TO CHANGE THAT?
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
ADDED WAS THAT AMICUS BRIEFS
THAT REQUIRE THAT QUICK
TURNAROUND THE ACTION SHOULD BE
INFORMED BY REGULAR LOGINS
PREVIOUSLY PASSED BY COUNSEL
AND BY THE AGENDA SET BY THE
COUNCIL POLICY COMMITTEE.
SO IT'S NOT JUST THAT ANY ANY
SORRY IT'S NOT JUST THAT THE
CITY ATTORNEY CAN ADD US TO
AMICUS BRIEFS AS THEY SEE FIT.
IT'S MORE THAT IF THEY FEEL
THAT IT IS GUIDED TOWARDS THE
COUNCIL A PRIORITY THE COUNCIL
IS EITHER EXPRESSED BY
RESOLUTION OR THROUGH ITS
POLICY AGENDA COMMITTEE.
WE'RE TO JOIN ON DOES THAT
SOUND CORRECT ATTORNEY OR YES.
THANK YOU, COUNCILOR REDISH.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
I'M UNDERSTANDING THIS AS I AS
I KNOW YOU WERE VERY CLEAR BUT
AS I READ THIS IT SEEMED TO ME
THAT ACCORDING TO THE CITY
CHARTER THE CITY ATTORNEY HAS
AN OBLIGATION TO REPRESENT THE
CITY IN CASES BEFORE COURTS AND
OTHER TRIBUNALS.
BUT THE CHARTER AND NOTHING
EXPLICITLY PROVIDES THE CITY
ATTORNEY WITH THE AUTHORITY TO
CARRY OUT ITS OBLIGATION AND SO
IS IT A CASE THAT WHAT WE ARE
DOING HERE IS PROVIDING THE
CITY ATTORNEY WITH THE
AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT THE
OBLIGATION THAT IS CHARGED WITH
THAT IS CORRECT AND ALSO AS
WRITTEN THE CITY CHARTER
LANGUAGE IS NOT COMPLETELY
PRECISE IN THE DISTINCTION
BETWEEN REPRESENTING TO DEFEND
VERSUS TO INITIATE AND WE JUST
WANTED TO CLARIFY THAT AS WELL
.
>> SO THANK YOU.
YEAH, I THINK IT'S JUST
IMPORTANT TO RESTATE THAT THIS
IS SORT OF A CLARIFICATION
CHANGE TO PROVIDE.
IT'S ESSENTIALLY THIS IS
EXISTING HAS BEEN EXISTING
PRACTICE WITHIN THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE IN TERMS
OF YOU KNOW HOW THAT HOW
THEY'VE BEEN PROCEEDING BUT AS
THEIR NEW CITY ATTORNEY HAS
COME IN LOOKING FOR THE SORT
OF EXPLICIT GUIDANCE IN OUR
CHARTER THAT STATES, YOU KNOW,
WHERE IS THIS POSSIBLE?
YOU KNOW, WHERE IS THIS
PROVIDED FOR?
THAT GUIDANCE HASN'T BEEN THERE
AND SO PLEASE CORRECT ME IF I'M
WRONG BUT THIS IS NOT CHANGING
EXISTING PRACTICE BUT RATHER
SORT OF CLARIFYING THAT YOU
HAVE THAT THE OFFICE HAS THE
ABILITY TO TO ACT IS THAT'S
ABSOLUTELY CORRECT.
I THINK THIS IS AN ITEM
OF HAVING THE NEW PERSON THE
NEW SET OF EYES LOOKING AT
EXISTING PRACTICE AND JUST
MAKING SURE THAT IT IS AS CLEAR
AS IT CAN BE TO THE DISCUSSION
WHATEVER POST IT IS APPROVED DC
SEVEN RESOLUTION TO DIRECT THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO EVALUATE
BONDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MILEAGE REVENUE A MOVE BY
COUNCILOR SONGS BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC SEVEN I BELIEVE WE
HAVE AN INTRODUCTION FROM THE
INDOMITABLE MRS HALL
.
>> JENNIFER HALL WILL BE
JOINING SANZIO
MAYOR AND CITY
COUNCIL.
I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT DC SEVEN
WHICH IS SIMPLY A REQUEST FOR
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR IN THE
HOUSING COMMISSION TO WORK
TOGETHER WITH THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AND OUR
ATTORNEYS TO FIGURE OUT THE
BEST WAY TO UTILIZE BOND
FINANCING FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND UTILIZE THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILLAGE AS A
WAY TO PAY BACK THE BOND SO
THAT WE HAVE A TOOL WE'RE ABLE
TO USE THE MILLAGE MORE QUICKLY
IN A LARGER AMOUNTS OF MONEY.
NOW THAN WAIT FOR THE MILLAGE
TO ACCRUE OVER TIME SO THAT WE
CAN DO MORE PROJECTS FASTER.
I HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH OUR
OUR ATTORNEY THE HOUSING
COMMISSIONS TO TRY AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AS WELL AS
OUR BOND COUNCIL TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT TYPE OF BONDS WORK THE
BEST FOR DIFFERENT TYPES
OF PROJECTS.
AND WHAT WE'VE BEEN FINDING IS
THERE'S ALL TYPES OF WAYS TO
ISSUE BONDS BOTH TAX EXEMPT AND
NOT TAX EXEMPT MUNICIPAL BONDS
BONDS THAT REQUIRE THE STATE TO
USE PART OF THEIR BOND CAP TO
PASS IT DOWN TO US TO UTILIZE
AND ALL ROADS HAVE BEEN A
DEAD END SO FAR AND SO WE MAY
END UP HAVING ONLY ONE PATH
THAT WE CAN TAKE IF WE ALSO ARE
UTILIZING IT'S CALLED NINE
PERCENT LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX
CREDITS AND THAT POTENTIAL PATH
MIGHT ONLY ALLOW US TO WORK
DIRECTLY WITH THE CITY BANABA
WITH THEIR BOND AUTHORITY.
>> IT'S VERY COMPLICATED.
I'M HAPPY TO TAKE QUESTIONS.
I AM NOT A COUNCIL BUT I'M
HAPPY TO ANSWER WHAT I CAN
RELATED TO THE MANY DISCUSSIONS
THAT I'VE HAD WITH OUR WITH OUR
ATTORNEY SO FAR FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCILPERSON.
>> SO I HAD BROACHED THIS IDEA
IN A CONVERSATION WITH MR. DE
HONY AND A COUPLE OF COUNCIL
MEMBERS IN ADVANCE OF OUR
BUDGET OUR BUDGET DISCUSSIONS
AND MR. JOANY BASICALLY SAID
THAT'S AN INTERESTING QUESTION
YOU NEED TO ASK ME TO ASK THAT
QUESTION AND IT REALLY FOLLOWS
AND THEN ALSO PROBABLY A GOOD
IDEA TO TALK TO JENNIFER AND I
WAS REALLY HEARTENED IN THOSE
DISCUSSIONS TO LEARN MORE ABOUT
THE THE WHAT THE MARKET IS
LIKE, WHAT THE MARKET
CONDITIONS ARE LIKE.
NOT HEARTENED TO HEAR IT
ACTUALLY NOT THRILLED TO HEAR
HOW DIFFICULT IT IS TO BUILD
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING RIGHT NOW
GIVEN THOSE MARKET CONDITIONS.
MARKET WATCH HAD AN ARTICLE
BACK IN APRIL SAYING THAT ON
HOW HOUSING STARTS HAD DECLINED
IN MARCH AND THAT APARTMENT
CONSTRUCTION HAD COOLED AND
WHAT HOUSING STARTS.
THIS IS BASICALLY A NUMBER
OF HOMES THAT WOULD BE BUILT
OVER AN ENTIRE YEAR
OF CONSTRUCTION TOOK PLACE AT
THE SAME EVERY MONTH.
SO THIS RESOLUTION ECHOES THIS
ECONOMIC OUTLOOK.
IT REFERENCES THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF HOME BUILDERS
REPORT THAT COMBINED SINGLE
FAMILY AND MULTIFAMILY HOUSING
STARTS WITH TWENTY NINE POINT
FIVE PERCENT LOWER IN THE
MIDWEST AND THAT'S DUE TO
INCREASED CONSTRUCTION AND
TRANSPORTATION ENERGY COSTS.
SO ULTIMATELY THAT LEAVES FEWER
OPTIONS FOR BUYERS AND RENTERS
AND HOW THAT IMPACTS AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IS IS CAN BE REALLY
DRASTIC BECAUSE UNLIKE MARKET
RATE HOUSING WHICH IS FUNDED
WITH DIFFERENT CAPITAL STACKS,
THEY CAN THEY CAN ADDRESS
INCREASING COSTS WITH BY
INCREASING RENTS.
BUT WITH OUR WITH OUR PROJECTS
THERE'S LESS FLEXIBILITY WHEN
IT'S FINANCED BY HUD BACKED
LOANS.
SO EVEN PROJECTS WHICH ARE
FINANCED WITH TAX CREDITS
THERE'S DEVELOPERS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY SAYING WE ARE NO LONGER
IT'S NO LONGER FINANCIALLY
VIABLE TO CONSTRUCT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING SO WE'RE NOT IMMUNE TO
THESE MARKET CONDITIONS.
MY WORRY WAS THAT, YOU KNOW, WE
NEED TO START ADDRESSING OUR
OUR HOUSING CRISIS MORE QUICKLY
AND I'M HOPING THAT THIS WILL
ENABLE
US TO BUILD MORE HOUSING
.
WE HAVE THREE HUNDRED IN THE
PIPELINE BUT WE'RE STILL SO FAR
FROM THE TWO THOUSAND SEVEN
HUNDRED EIGHTY SEVEN THAT WE
HAD DEDICATED OURSELVES TO BACK
IN TWENTY FIFTEEN.
SO THESE DISCUSSIONS HAVE BEEN
FRUITFUL.
I HAVE LEARNED A LOT.
I WISH IT WAS I WISH WE HAD
MORE MONEY MORE QUICKLY.
>> LET'S WORK AND I'M HOPING
THAT WE CAN ADDRESS THIS
SIMILAR TO HOW WE ADDRESSED
STREET REPAIR WHEN MR. DARNAY
HAD PROPOSED FUNDING OUT FOR
FOR THAT WORK LAST YEAR.
SO I'M HOPING FOR GOOD RESULTS
BUT AGAIN THIS IS JUST AN
EXPLORATORY EFFORT TO SEE
WHAT'S ACTUALLY FINANCIALLY
POSSIBLE FOR THE CITY COUNCIL.
BERGONZI ONE THANK YOU.
I'D LIKE TO THANK ONE SONG AND
MY OTHER COLLEAGUES HARD.
I WOULD LIKE TO BE LISTED AS A
CO-SPONSOR.
I THINK THAT THIS IS A GREAT
AND A NECESSARY WAY THAT WE CAN
HELP TO EXPEDITE BUILDING MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AT LEAST
LOOKING INTO LOOKING INTO A
PROCESS OF HOW WE CAN DO THAT.
HOUSING IS A HUMAN RIGHT.
WE KNOW IT AFFECTS EVERY
QUALITY OF LIFE INDICATORS SO
I'M IN FULL SUPPORT SORRY
COUNCIL OF DENHA THANK YOU
MAYOR TAYLOR.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK MY
COLLEAGUE COUNCIL MEMBER SONG
FOR SPEARHEADING THIS AND
BRINGING ME INTO IT.
I'M REALLY HOPEFUL THAT THIS
WILL EXPEDITE SOME OF OUR WORK
ON AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN THE
COMMUNITY.
I DO WANT TO PROPOSE A AN
AMENDMENT BASED ON LANGUAGE
PROVIDED TO US BY THE ATTORNEYS
OFFICE AFTER CONVERSATION WITH
WITH JENNIFER HALL AND COUNCIL
MEMBERS ON ADDING AN ADDITIONAL
WHEREAS CLAUSE TO BE INSERTED
BEFORE THE LAST WHEREAS CLAUSE
MAKING IT THE SECOND TO LAST
WHEREAS THE HOUSING COMMISSION
IS CURRENTLY EVALUATING HOW IT
CAN USE BOND FINANCING TO FUND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND GIVEN
POSSIBLE LIMITATIONS SUPPORTS
THE CITY ALSO EVALUATING ITS
USE OF FINANCING FOR THIS
PURPOSE.
>> IS THERE A SECOND CITY
COUNCIL WHERE WATSON IS THAT
FINALLY THE BODY COUNTS WHERE
DENHA IS STILL THE FLOOR?
>> THANKS EVERYBODY.
I DON'T HAVE MUCH MORE TO
BEYOND WHAT COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
ALREADY SO CLEARLY AND
WONDERFULLY EXPLAINED I AM I'M
JUST REALLY HOPEFUL THAT WE CAN
CONTINUE TO TO EXPEDITE OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WORK IN THE
COMMUNITY.
WE KNOW THAT THIS IS A CRISIS
THAT NEEDS TO BE ADDRESSED AND
I AM HOPING THAT THIS IS
ANOTHER POSSIBLE TOOL FOR US TO
BEGIN MOVING THINGS FORWARD.
COUNCILOR HARRISON?
>> YES, I JUST WANT TO THINK
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND COLLEAGUES
FOR BRINGING THIS TO THE TABLE
AND I WOULD LIKE TO ADD MYSELF
AS A CO-SPONSOR AND I JUST I'VE
GOT SOME THOUGHTS SURROUNDING
THIS LEVERAGING BOND FINANCING
IS A CRUCIAL TOOL TO ADVANCE
OUR COMMITMENT TO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR.
THIS IS NOT JUST AN ECONOMIC
MATTER.
IT'S EQUITABLE ACCESS TO
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR.
LET'S BE CLEAR HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY IS NOT A
PRIVILEGE.
IT IS A RIGHT.
AN EQUITABLE CITY IS WHERE IS
ONE WHERE EVERYONE REGARDLESS
OF INCOME HAS ACCESS TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR THE CITY
HAS ALWAYS HAS BEEN PROSPEROUS
YET TO SIGNIFY A PORTION OF OUR
CITIZENS ARE DENIED ACCESS TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
HOUSING INSECURITY IN THE MIDST
OF WEALTH IS NOT EQUITY.
BOND FINANCING PRESENTS US WITH
AN INNOVATIVE PROMISING
SOLUTION THAT HAS THE POTENTIAL
TO ACT AS A CATALYST
TRANSFORMING ASPIRATIONS FOR
HOUSING EQUITY INTO TANGIBLE
REALITIES.
WE HAVE THE RESOURCES IN THE
FORM OF OUR CITIES AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILLICH GENERATING
AROUND SIX POINT FIVE MILLION
ANNUALLY.
IT'S TIME WE PUT THESE
RESOURCES TO WORK MORE
EFFECTIVELY AND MORE QUICKLY.
OUR MILLAGE REVENUE COULD BE
THE KEY TO UNLOCK A BRIGHTER,
MORE EQUITABLE FUTURE FOR OUR
CITY.
WHEN WE ADOPTED WASHTENAW
COUNTY HOUSING PLEDGE IN TWENTY
TWENTY WE MADE A PROMISE.
WE ACKNOWLEDGED HOUSING IS A
FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN RIGHT AND WE
TOOK RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAKING
THIS RIGHT A REALITY FOR OUR
CITIZENS.
TODAY WE HAVE A CHANCE TO PROVE
THAT THIS WAS MORE THAN JUST
WORDS.
>> LET'S TURN OUR PLEDGE INTO
ACTION.
>> REMEMBER OUR GOAL JUST ISN'T
CREATING AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
IT'S ABOUT CREATING AN
EQUITABLE COMMUNITY WHERE
EVERYONE CAN THRIVE.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ISN'T JUST
ABOUT SHELTER.
IT'S ABOUT EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
IT'S ABOUT SOCIAL JUSTICE.
I WILL OBVIOUSLY BE SUPPORTING
THIS EVENING AND I REALLY JUST
WANT TO SAY IT IN OUR EQUITY
ISN'T JUST AN IDEA.
IT'S A COMMITMENT THAT DRIVES
OUR ACTION COUNCIL BRITISH
THANK YOU COLLEAGUES FOR
WORKING ON THIS AND I WOULD
LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR PEACE COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON, THANK YOU.
EARLIER TODAY WE TALKED ABOUT
HOW WE'RE GOING TO USE ZONING
TO TRY TO INFLUENCE PRIVATE
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT HERE.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE PUBLIC
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT THAT WE CAN
DO ON WAS MOST PROXIMATELY ON
CITY OWNED LOTS.
AND WHAT WE KNOW IS THAT IN
BOTH THE PRIVATE AND THE PUBLIC
SECTOR COSTS ARE JUST
INCREASING.
THEY'RE NOT GOING DOWN.
SO USING THE MONEY THAT WE HAVE
AND ANTICIPATE TO HAVE THROUGH
OUR MILLAGE USING THAT MONEY
QUICKER AND GETTING IT UP FRONT
RATHER THAN WAITING FOR A
MARKET COST CONSTRUCTION COSTS
JUST CONTINUE TO GO UP MAY
ALLOW US TO BUILD MORE AND THE
TO CLARIFY JUST THE POINT ON
THE AMENDMENT HERE IT WAS
OFFERED TO US BY MR MCDONNELL
IN THE ATTORNEY'S OFFICE.
WHAT IT DOES IS IT CLARIFIES
THAT THIS IS STUFF THAT WAS
ALREADY HAPPENING.
THIS IS WORK THAT MRS HALL WAS
ALREADY DOING AND BECAUSE WE'RE
GOING TO BE TALKING NEXT WEEK
ABOUT GRANTS THAT WE ARE MAKING
THE CITY OF DENVER IS MAKING TO
THE HOUSING COMMISSION THIS IS
CLARIFYING THAT THIS IS ONGOING
LOOKING AT ANOTHER ANGLE WHICH
IS THE BOND FINANCING MRS HALL,
I WOULD WONDER COULD YOU TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE UNIQUE
CONDITIONS IN ANN ARBOR AND HOW
THE FACT THAT THE AREA MEDIAN
INCOME CONTINUING TO INCREASE
JUST MAKES MAKES EVERYTHING
HARDER FROM THE HOUSING
COMMISSION'S ANGLE IN TERMS
OF GETTING THINGS BUILT AND
ALSO FINANCING SPECIFIC TO THE
LABOR MARKET AND THROUGHOUT.
I'D LIKE TO PURSUE THAT BY
SAYING THANKS TO EVERYTHING AS
WELL BECAUSE I THOUGHT I WAS
JUST ANSWERING QUESTIONS THAT I
HAD NOT PREPARED ANY KIND
OF PRESENCE.
>> AND SO I APPRECIATE YOUR
BACKGROUND.
ITS INTERESTING BECAUSE THE ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOUR
THOUSAND DOLLAR AREA MEETING IT
DOES REFLECT THE ACTUAL
CONDITIONS OF THE MARKETPLACE
IN THE COMPETITION FOR HOUSING
BUT IT ALSO REFLECTS BECAUSE
OF AND I'VE TALKED ABOUT THIS
MANY TIMES IN THE PAST BECAUSE
OF STUDENTS WHO ARE APPEAR TO
BE IN POVERTY IN LOW INCOME BUT
MAY OR MAY NOT BE FROM FROM
THEIR FAMILY SITUATION WHETHER
THEY CAME FROM POVERTY OR NOT
OR LOW INCOME OR NOT.
SO IT'S ACTUALLY REPRESENTING
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN THE
MARKETPLACE AND EVEN IN
PARTICULARLY NOT JUST EVEN BUT
PARTICULARLY LOW INCOME
STUDENTS ARE HAVING A REALLY
HARD TIME EVEN FINDING HOUSING
IN ANN ARBOR NOW AS WELL.
AND WE'RE HEARING BOTH
ANECDOTAL AND REAL STORIES
ABOUT OUR VOUCHER TENANTS
GETTING DISPLACED FROM FINDING
HOUSING NOT JUST IN ANN ARBOR
ANYMORE BUT IN THE CITY OF IPSI
AND TOWNSHIP IN PITTSFIELD
TOWNSHIP BECAUSE OF THE
STUDENTS THAT ARE CONTINUING TO
GET PUSHED FARTHER AND FARTHER
OUTSIDE THE COMMUNITY IN AN ODD
WAY THE ONE HUNDRED TWENTY FOUR
THOUSAND DOLLAR INCREASE IN
MEDIAN INCOME IS ATTRACT TO
MAYBE THIS AS OPPOSED TO FOR
PROFIT DEVELOPERS BECAUSE THE
MEDIAN INCOME DOESN'T EXACTLY
RISE THE SAME WAY UP AND DOWN
OVER TIME AS RENTS.
BUT IT'S IT'S PRETTY CLOSE TO
AS INCOME GOES UP, RENT GOES UP
AND SO THE VARIOUS PROGRAMS
THAT WE HAVE TO APPLY TO TO PUT
OUR CAPITAL STACK TOGETHER THE
MEDIAN INCOMES IN RENTS ARE
MUCH HIGHER THAN MOST
COMMUNITIES.
SO IN SOME SENSES ARE WE'RE AN
ATTRACTIVE COMMUNITY TO BUILD
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IF THAT'S
THE TYPE OF HOUSING THAT YOU DO
BECAUSE YOU CAN CHARGE MORE
RENT FOR LIKE A 60 PERCENT AND
MY HOUSEHOLD THAN YOU COULD IN
OTHER COMMUNITIES.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT OUR
DEVELOPMENT COSTS ARE ALSO
HIGHER ON THE FRONT END AND SO
YOU'RE CONSTANTLY THREADING THE
NEEDLE BETWEEN FIGURING OUT HOW
TO KEEP YOUR HOUSING COSTS AT
AN AFFORDABLE MANAGEABLE LEVEL
UNDER DEVELOPMENT SIDE.
RIGHT NOW OUR PROJECT ON
KATHERINE IS RUNNING ABOUT FOUR
HUNDRED SEVENTY EIGHT THOUSAND
A UNIT WHICH EXCEEDS WHAT THE
STATE MISHNA LIMITATIONS ARE
FOR PER UNIT COST.
AND SO WE'VE ALREADY GOTTEN A
WAIVER FROM THEM TO ALLOW US TO
EXCEED THEIR THEIR PER UNIT
COST BUT ON THE BACKS YOU CAN
ALSO HAVE HIGHER RENTS.
BUT THAT IS FROM A FOR PROFIT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPER
PERSPECTIVE WHEN YOU'RE COMING
FROM A PERSPECTIVE OF A
NONPROFIT MISSION DRIVEN
HOUSING DEVELOPER, EVEN THOUGH
WE COULD CHARGE SIX HUNDRED
DOLLARS A MONTH IN RENT TO
REACH THAT 60 PERCENT AIMI OR
50 PERCENT IN MY HOUSEHOLD THAT
IS NOT THE RENT THAT WE DESIRE
TO CHARGE WHEN UNLESS WE HAVE A
RENT SUBSIDY AND SO THE TYPE
OF FINANCING THAT WE PUT
TOGETHER DOESN'T PROVIDE A RENT
SUBSIDY.
THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN DO THAT IS
WITH SOME KIND OF AN ACTUAL
VOUCHER TYPE PROGRAM.
SO WE WILL HAVE UNITS THAT WE
BRING ON LINE THAT WILL BE
AFFORDABLE BUT WE ARE NOT
FACING THEM AT THE MAXIMUM
AMOUNT THAT CAN BE GENERATED
BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT OUR
HOUSEHOLDS WE'RE TARGETING IN
THE COMMUNITY EVEN AT 60
PERCENT AIMI ONE HUNDRED SIXTY
HUNDRED A MONTH IS A LOT.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO GET UNITS
PRICED AT MORE THAN THE EIGHT
TO A THOUSAND DOLLAR RANGE
WHICH STILL FEELS VERY HIGH.
>> SO
THERE'S A LOT
OF DIFFERENT FACTORS.
>> THE MARKET IS CONSTANTLY
CHANGING.
RECORD LOW INTEREST A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO AND NOW WE'RE IT'S
DEFINITELY NOT RECORD HIGH
INTEREST JUST IN OUR PAST
DECADE OR SO THE INTEREST RATES
BOTH ON CONSTRUCTION LOANS, ON
PERMANENT FINANCING ARE
EXTREMELY HIGH COMPARED TO WHAT
THEY WERE EVEN FOUR OR FIVE
YEARS AGO.
IT'S JUST MAKING IT REALLY
CHALLENGING TO PUT YOUR CAPITAL
STACK TOGETHER WHICH FOR US SO
FAR WE HAVE 12 DIFFERENT
FUNDING SOURCES RIGHT NOW JUST
ON ONE ONE PROJECT AND I'M
SORRY IF I DID ANSWER ALL
OF YOUR QUESTIONS ACTUALLY YES.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
SONG.
JENNIFER, CAN YOU DO YOU OR THE
AVERAGE WAIT IS FOR A HOUSING
VOUCHER YOU DON'T REALLY COUNT
AVERAGE BECAUSE W WE OPEN
OUR WAITLIST WE OPEN IT ON DAY
ONE AND EVERY DAY OUR AVERAGE
GETS LONGER SO WE OPEN ON DAY
ONE IN THE FIRST PEOPLE PULL
OVER IT TAKES THEM A WEEK OR A
MONTH AND THEN IT'S A YEAR AND
THEN IT'S TWO YEARS.
BUT I CAN TELL YOU THE WE STILL
HAVE SEVERAL THOUSAND PEOPLE ON
OUR WAITLIST AND WHEN THE LAST
TIME WE OPENED IT FOR OUR
FUTURE AND OUR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROGRAMS WAS IN
NOVEMBER OF TWENTY TWENTY AND
BOTH OF THOSE PROGRAMS STILL
HAVE SEVERAL THOUSAND PEOPLE ON
THEM.
>> SO THREE YEARS LATER
CONSUMER WANTS THEM TO START
SELLING YOU STILL OK SO THE
REASON WHY I ASK THAT IS
BECAUSE I KNOW ANECDOTALLY
THERE ARE FOLKS WHO IN IF NOT
IN ANN ARBOR AT LEAST IN THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN HAVE BECOME
HOMELESS WAITING FOR HOUSING
VOUCHERS TO GET OFF OF THE WAIT
LIST.
AND ONCE YOU RECEIVE A VOUCHER
THAT WHAT FOLKS I DON'T THINK
ARE AWARE OF IS A CASE IN A
TIME CLOCK YOU HAVE 60 DAYS TO
FIND SOMEONE TO ACCEPT THAT
VOUCHER.
SO IT'S A RACE AGAINST THE
CLOCK IN A VERY LIMITED MARKET
.
SO I'M HOPING THIS WILL HELP.
BUT ALSO, YOU KNOW, THERE ARE
THINGS THAT WE CAN DO BEYOND
WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO HERE AT
CONSULATES.
I ENCOURAGE US ALL TO LOBBY.
I MEAN THIS IS ALL FROM IF YOU
IF YOU LOVE TO READ LIKE THE
PEW CHARITABLE TRUSTS PIECES ON
RESEARCH AND HUD REGULATIONS,
WE CAN LOBBY THE FEDS TO REMOVE
TARIFFS ON TIMBER, PASS THE
OCEAN SHIPPING REFORM ACT,
PROVIDE CAREER PROGRAMS TO
ENCOURAGE AND PREPARE
CONSTRUCTION WORKERS.
>> THERE ARE WAYS TO FIGURE OUT
FUTURE EFFORTS BESIDES INSTEAD
OF CONSTANTLY TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT CAPITAL STACKS OR HOW TO
FINANCE THIS WORK UNTIL THERE
IS MORE SUBSTANTIAL FUNDING
FROM BY HUD.
SO ANYWAYS YES THANK YOU FOR
WATCHING.
>> I I WANT TO OFFER MY
PROFOUND THANKS TO ALL FOR
BRILLIANTLY ANSWERING ALL MY
QUESTIONS AND REALLY HOW MANY
CONVERSATIONS THAT SHE'S MADE
HERSELF AVAILABLE TO FOR ME AND
COUNTLESS OTHER SONGS WORKING
TOGETHER.
THERE'S ALSO THE WORK FROM THE
I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS A LITTLE
BIT I THINK THE TAKE AWAY FROM
HALL IS ANSWER FOR ME IS JUST
HOW HARD THIS IS AND HOW
CREATIVE WE HAVE TO BE TO TRY
TO GET PUBLICLY FINANCE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING BUILT HERE.
EVERYBODY KNOWS WE'VE MADE A
PROMISE ON TRYING TO BUILD
AFFORDABLE UNITS.
WE'VE MADE A PROMISE OUR
COMMUNITY HAS AFFIRMED THAT
PROMISE BY VOTING FOR THE
HOUSING VILLAGE.
BUT WE THIS IS FUNDING SOURCES
YOU HEAR THIS USED ON A PROJECT
.
IT JUST SHOWS THERE IS NO WHEN
WE SAY THERE'S NO SILVER BULLET
,THERE REALLY IS NO SILVER
BULLET BECAUSE WE'VE BEEN
LOOKING FOR IT.
I WANT TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA AS WELL AS A
REPRESENTATIVE OF THIS
COMMISSION COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S WHO HAS PROVIDED SOME
SUPPORT AND SOME HELP TO RIGHT
THROUGH HOUSING COMMISSION.
AND ALSO I WANT TO THANK
COMMUNITY MEMBER ZACHARIA
FARRA, CHAIR OF THE RENTERS
COMMISSION BECAUSE KNOW HE'S
COMING AT THIS ANGLE OF A
PERSON WHO WANTS TO RENT AND
WANTS TO BE ABLE TO STAY IN ANN
ARBOR AND SO I JUST I HEAR THIS
EVERYWHERE.
WHERE IS THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING?
WHY AREN'T YOU GUYS BUILDING
IT?
THE ANSWER IF YOU TAKE THE TIME
AND LISTEN TO MRS. HALL'S
THOUGHTFUL ANSWER, THE ANSWERS
ARE THERE.
IT'S IT'S IT'S TIME CONSUMING.
IT TAKES CREATIVITY AND TAKES
AND IT'S HAMSTRUNG BY
BUREAUCRACY AND OLDER
ORGANIZATIONS AREN'T FITTING
THE NEW ECONOMIC CONTEXT THAT
WE TO CONSTANTLY CHANGING
ECONOMIC CONTEXT THAT WE FIND
OURSELVES IN.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN MRS THANK
YOU TO EVERYONE WHO HAS AIDED
IN THIS FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF C8 ON FAVOR PAUSED TO PROVE
IT I SAID I'M GETTING AHEAD
OF MYSELF IN THE DC SEVEN.
>> GOODNESS GRACIOUS.
ANYBODY CONFUSED BY THAT AGAIN
IT'S ME DC RESOLUTION DIRECTING
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO IDENTIFY
INCENTIVES THAT WOULD SUPPORT
VOLUNTARY EFFORTS TO INCREASE
EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS MOVE BY NO
BRIGG SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBER RIGGS.
THANK YOU SO IN MAY BUT THE
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION'S PASSED RESOLUTIONS
URGING THE CITY TO LOOK FOR
OPPORTUNITIES TO INCENTIVIZE
ALL ELECTRIC HOUSING
DEVELOPMENTS.
THE RESOLUTION SUGGESTED THAT
HIS STAFF EXPLORE OPTIONS SUCH
AS FEE STRUCTURE, TAX CREDITS,
PRIORITY REVIEW AND TECHNICAL
GUIDANCE AMONG OTHER IDEAS.
RESOLUTION BEFORE YOU TONIGHT
CARRIES FORWARD THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THESE
ADVISORY BODIES.
IT'S WELL KNOWN THAT MOVING A
PROJECT THE DEVELOPMENT
PIPELINE IN ANN ARBOR IS OFTEN
QUITE DIFFICULT AND COSTLY AND
WE JUST HEARD ABOUT JUST THE
EXTERNAL PRESSURES AS WELL AND
RISING COSTS AND THIS IS WHY
THE CITY IS CONDUCTING A
HOLISTIC REVIEW OF OUR
DEVELOPMENT PROCESSES.
HOWEVER, OUR LOCAL GREEN
DEVELOPERS, BUILDERS AND
ARCHITECTS ARE INFORMING THAT
OUR PROCESSES ARE PARTICULARLY
PROBLEMATIC FOR THOSE TRYING TO
BUILD INNOVATIVE, SUSTAINABLE
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS GIVEN THE
URGENCY OF OUR CLIMATE AND
HOUSING GOALS, WE NEED TO BE
DOING EVERYTHING WE CAN TO
ENSURE THAT THE GRID THAT WE
THE GREEN RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
IS NOT ONLY POSSIBLE BUT
WELCOMED AND SUPPORTED BY OUR
INTERNAL PROCESSES AND CITY
POLICIES.
I BELIEVE WE WANT TO ROLL OUT
THE RED CARPET FOR THESE TYPES
OF PROJECTS SO OTHER THAN THAT
THIS IS A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD AMENDMENT.
I DO WANT TO PROVIDE ONE SMALL
AMENDMENT TO THE RESOLUTION IN
FRONT OF YOU THAT JUST HELPS TO
ADDING A SECOND RESOLVE CLAUSE
TO CLARIFY AND FOCUS STAFF
EFFORTS IN THE SHORT TERM
BECAUSE IT'S RELATIVELY BROAD
THAT RESOLVE CLAUSE SO THE
SECOND RESOLVED CLAUSE WOULD
READ AND I THINK IT'S GOING TO
BE FORWARDED AROUND IN THE
SECOND RESOLVED THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL DIRECTS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO PROVIDE A
WRITTEN PROGRESS REPORT
IDENTIFYING INTERNAL PROCESSES
PARTICULARLY IN THE DEVELOPMENT
REVIEW PROCESS THAT CAN BE
MODIFIED TO INCREASE EMISSIONS
REDUCTIONS THROUGH A TRANSITION
TO SUSTAINABLE CLEAN HEATING AS
WELL AS BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION BY DECEMBER
31ST TWO THOUSAND TWENTY THREE
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND
BECAUSE CUSTOMER CORNELL
ZEFFIRELLI'S BODY FROM THE BODY
TO THE FLOOR.
>> THANK YOU AND THANK YOU FOR
SUPPORTING THAT.
THAT JUST PROVIDES US WITH SOME
FEEDBACK BY BY THE END OF THE
YEAR IN TERMS OF PROCESS
PROGRESS THAT WE'RE MAKING
IDEAS THAT HAVE BEEN GENERATED
BY STAFF THROUGHOUT THIS
PROCESS PARTICULARLY RELATED TO
THE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
BRITISH THANK YOU COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS.
THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF TALK IN
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT HOW WE CAN
GET MORE NEW DEVELOPMENT THAT
IS ALL ELECTRIC AND WE ARE
DOING OUR BEST TO FIND WAYS TO
DO THAT ON MANY FRONTS BUT SOME
VOICES IN THE DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY HAVE SUGGESTED THAT
OUR FASTEST PATH TO
DECARBONIZATION MAY BE THROUGH
VOLUNTARY ADOPTION BY BUILDERS
AND RESIDENTS AND WE HAVE NO
WAY TO COMPEL BUILDERS.
IT'S REALLY WE CANNOT SAY THAT
ENOUGH.
IT IS THERE ARE CONSTRAINTS ON
THE BUILDING CODE , THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN AND OTHER ASPECTS
OF STATE LAW THAT MAKE IT VERY
DIFFICULT FOR US TO COMPEL THE
BUILDING OF OF OF PROJECTS THAT
ARE ALL ELECTRIC.
BUT THERE MAY BE WAYS THAT WE
CAN SAVE DEVELOPERS AND
RESIDENTS TIME AND MONEY OR
BECAUSE TIME IS MONEY.
SO IF IF WE ARE ABLE TO DO THAT
THEN WE ARE SAYING IT'S IN YOUR
INTEREST TO BUILD THIS WAY WE
DON'T HAVE TO TRY TO MORALLY
CHASTISE BECAUSE THAT DOESN'T
WORK VERY WELL.
SO THAT'S THE SPIRIT OF THIS
RESOLUTION AND I'M VERY
GRATEFUL TO THE STAFF AND
OF COURSE AS ALWAYS TO YOU TO
NO BREAKS FOR US WORKING
TOGETHER AND COUNCIL MEMBER
APEMEN.
THANK YOU AND COUNCILMAN AND
I'M SORRY COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR
AND THANK YOU TO MY CO-SPONSORS
FOR THEIR WORK ON THIS AS WELL
.
I JUST WANTED TO ALSO
ACKNOWLEDGE I MEAN COUNCILMAN
BRIGGS MENTIONED THIS BUT THREE
OF OUR CITY COMMISSIONERS
ENERGY ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
COMMISSION ALL PASSED
RESOLUTIONS CALLING FOR FOR
THIS IN ADDITION TO SOME OTHER
EFFORTS TO MOVE TO CLEAN AIR,
CLEAN HEATING SOURCES AND AWAY
FROM FOSSIL GAS AND I JUST WANT
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS IS
AGAIN MY GRATITUDE FOR THE WORK
OF OUR VOLUNTEER COMMISSIONERS
WHO ARE WHO ARE ADVOCATING FOR
THESE CHANGES TO CONTINUE
MAKING PROGRESS TOWARDS OUR H0
GOALS.
AND AND I AM I AM GRATEFUL THAT
WE'RE ABLE TO KIND OF MOVE
FORWARD WITH WITH THIS TO TO TO
HOPEFULLY CONTINUE THAT WORK
AND KEEP US MOVING IN A
POSITIVE DIRECTION.
AND SO THANKS TO OUR
COMMISSIONERS FOR CONTINUING TO
TO PUSH THIS WORK FORWARD AND
FOR ALL OF THEIR THOUGHTFUL
CONVERSATIONS AND GUIDANCE IN
THE COMMISSION MEETINGS AS WELL
ALSO RECOMMEND.
I JUST WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT YOU
KNOW, HOW EFFECTIVE INCENTIVES
CAN BE.
I THINK THAT'S EVIDENT THROUGH
OUR E TO SUMMARIZE PROGRAM
WHICH I KNOW PROBABLY SEVERAL
OF US HAVE TAKEN ADVANTAGE
OF THE NOT ONLY PROVIDE
EDUCATION TO KIND OF LOWER THE
FRICTION AND THE BARRIERS TO
ADOPTION
BUT ALSO FINANCIAL
INCENTIVES THROUGH PIPES AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
APPLYING WHAT WE'VE LEARNED AND
OTHER PROGRAMS IN THE CITY TO
THIS EFFORT BECAUSE I THINK IT
CAN REALLY PAY OFF GAS.
>> MCCONNELL AND THANKS THANKS
FOR MY COLLEAGUES FOR BRINGING
THIS FORWARD.
I WAS GOING TO SAY SOMETHING
VERY SIMILAR TO WHAT COUNCILMAN
BRAGMAN SAID.
THERE'S A LONG HISTORY AND
REALLY A LOT OF EVIDENCE THAT
SHOWS WHEN WE INCENTIVIZE THIS
TYPE OF DEVELOPMENT WORKS.
>> SO I'D LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED IT IS TO DC NINE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN THE CITY THAT HARBOR
AND THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF THE CITY THE NO
MOVE BY COUNCILOR.
I ASKED MY COUNCIL MCCONNELL
DISCUSSION PLEASE THE DC NINE
COUNCIL MEMBER GRENELLE THANK
YOU SO AS WAS MENTIONED EARLIER
THAT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP.
OF INOTERA HAS DETERMINED THAT
THERE ARE ADDITIONAL WAYS THAT
IT MAY ASSIST THE CITY IN
ADDRESSING ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITIES THAT WOULD BE
BENEFICIAL TO OUR LOCAL
BUSINESS COMMUNITY IN THIS
AMADU BASICALLY SOLIDIFIES A
MORE CLOSER ASSOCIATION BETWEEN
THE TWO ENTITIES SO THE CITY
AND THE EDC TO FACILITATE IN
IDENTIFYING AND IMPLEMENTING
WHAT THOSE ROLES MIGHT BE.
>> I'M REALLY EXCITED TO
SUPPORT THIS.
I THINK YOU KNOW, WE TALK ABOUT
THE OFFICE OF COMMUNITY AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, THE
COUNTY LEVEL WE TALK ABOUT
SPARKE, BOTH OF WHOM HAVE
FAIRLY DEFINED MISSIONS AND
OBJECTIVES FOR THEIR WORK AND
I'VE SAID IT AT THE TABLE
BEFORE THERE'S A GAP HERE IN
ANN ARBOR AS TO HOW ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT IS APPROACHED AND I
THINK THAT THIS IS A GOOD
INTERMEDIARY STEP TO SORT
OF IDENTIFY THOSE AND WHERE
POSSIBLE EMPOWER EDC TO TO FILL
THOSE GAPS.
AND SO I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
WORKING CLOSELY BETWEEN THE
CITY AND THE EDC ON THOSE
INITIATIVES MR. DONEES OFFICE
AND I'M JUST I'M REALLY EXCITED
TO SEE THIS COME FORWARD AND TO
ACTUALLY HAVE AS GROUP MEETING
CONVENES AND THINKS ABOUT
THINGS HAS A HIGHER PURPOSE AND
AN ADDITIONAL PURPOSE.
JUST THE BANDING MECHANISM
WHICH WE HEARD EARLIER ISN'T
QUITE USED AS OFTEN AND
THEREFORE THIS GROUP HAS
INTEREST AND EXPERTIZE TO TO
TAKE ANOTHER WORK FOR THE CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL FOR THAT SUMMARY.
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL AND I
ARE THE TWO CITY LIAISONS TO
THE EDC AND THIS REALLY THIS
MLU IS THE CULMINATION
OF DISCUSSIONS THAT HAVE GONE
BACK YEARS AMONG MEMBERS OF THE
EDC.
SO I APPRECIATE ALL THE THOUGHT
THAT HAS GONE INTO THAT BY THE
THE LOCAL EXPERTS THAT WE HAVE
IN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT WHO
HAVE BEEN SERVING IN THE EDC
FOR SO MANY YEARS.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
THIS THE GOALS HERE REALLY COME
FROM A DESIRE TO PLAY A ROLE IN
ADVOCATING FOR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND FOR FINDING
WAYS TO SUPPORT THE CITY IN
MOVING FORWARD ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES.
ONE OF THOSE THE ADC ALREADY
MOVED FORWARD WAS THE BUILDING
AND DEVELOPMENT PROCESS REVIEW
THAT IS CURRENTLY ONGOING.
IT'S AN EXCITING INITIATIVE AND
THOSE INTERVIEWS THAT THAT CITY
STAFF HAVE BEEN HAVING WITH
PEOPLE THROUGHOUT THE
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY ARE
WRAPPING UP AND WE'RE GOING TO
BE LEARNING VERY SOON WHAT SORT
OF RECOMMENDATIONS WILL COME
FROM THAT.
BUT THAT'S ALL ABOUT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND DRIVING DOWN
THE COST OF DEVELOPING HOUSING
IN OUR COMMUNITY, WHICH IS AS
WE ALL KNOW, ONE OF OUR BIGGEST
NEEDS THAT WE HAVE LOCALLY.
SO I THINK THIS IS GOING TO BE
A REALLY GOOD THING FOR US TO
FILL THOSE GAPS IN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT TO WORK WITH OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR WHO HAS SUCH
KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERTIZE IN THIS
AREA AND IS BRINGING HIS OWN
PRIORITIES TO BEAR ON THIS.
>> AND I HOPE WE CAN ALL
SUPPORT THIS TONIGHT FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF PAUL POST.
IT IS APPROVED MASCORD WE HAVE
THE PLEASURE OF A CLOSED
SESSION THIS EVENING.
WE DO INDEED.
MAYOR TAYLOR AND BEFORE I READ
THE BASIS FOR THE CLOSED
SESSION, LET ME JUST SAY THANK
YOU FOR YOUR PATIENCE AND
DEDICATION TO YOUR SERVICE TO
THE CITY.
WE HAVE THREE BASES FOR CLOSED
SESSION COLLECTIVELY I'M SURE
WE HAVE THREE BASES OF CLOSED
SESSIONS TONIGHT UNDER FCL.
FIFTEEN TO SIX EIGHT FIRST
UNDER SECTION EIGHT D TO
CONSIDER THE PURCHASE LEASE
OF REAL PROPERTY SECOND UNDER
SECTION EIGHT E REGARDING
CHRISTINE HARRIS WITH CITY AND
OTHER CASE NUMBER TWO ZERO ZERO
ZERO ZERO TWO SIX FIVE DASH AND
O IN WASHINGTON COUNTY CIRCUIT
COURT THE CASE EAGLE V. GILMAN
SCIENCES INC. WASHTENAW COUNTY
CIRCUIT COURT CASE NUMBER EIGHT
EIGHT DASH THREE FOUR SEVEN
THREE FOUR DASH C AND CITY
OF ANN ARBOR V. GILMAN SCIENCES
LLC WASHTENAW COUNTY CIRCUIT
COURT CASE NUMBER TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO FOUR SIX
THREE DASH SIKA INCLUDING THE
PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM THAT WAS PROVIDED TO
COUNCIL ON MAY 30TH AND JUNE
1ST OF 2023.
>> I MADE A MOTION TO GO INTO
CLOSED SESSION FOR THOSE
PURPOSES MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL SECONDED BY
COUNCIL BRINGS DISCUSSION
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE STARTING
IF COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON YES OR
COUNCILOR WATSON YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA YES NO DOUBT
014 YES VERY TAYLOR YES.
MARIAH YES SIR.
YES SIR.
BRIGGS YES.
DILLSBURG CORNELL ELLESMERE
DISH YES PLEASE SIR.
HARRISON YES.
YES MOTION CARRIES WE'RE
ENCLOSED SESSION CAN WE JUST
LEAVE OUR
WE HAVE TO GO BACK
INTO OPEN SESSION, MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER THIS SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER AND DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED WE ARE BACK IN
OPEN SESSION.
WE HAVE THE FORCE THE SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS ON
REFERRALS, MOTION TO APPROVE
AND SUPPORT FOR ACCOUNTABLE
CARE NO SECOND BY COUNCIL
MARIAH DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED THE CLERK REPORT IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY TODAY.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOWN WE HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCILMAN BY COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRIS AND DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
WE ARE ADJOURNED